0	The information system:  a. Provides additional data origin and integrity artifacts along with the authoritative name resolution data the system returns in response to external name/address resolution queries; and  b. Provides the means to indicate the security status of child zones and (if the child supports secure resolution services) to enable verification of a chain of trust among parent and child domains, when operating as part of a distributed, hierarchical namespace.   Supplemental Guidance:  This control enables external clients including, for example, remote Internet clients, to obtain origin authentication and integrity verification assurances for the host/service name to network address resolution information obtained through the service. Information systems that provide name and address resolution services include, for example, domain name system (DNS) servers. Additional artifacts include, for example, DNS Security (DNSSEC) digital signatures and cryptographic keys. DNS resource records are examples of authoritative data. The means to indicate the security status of child zones includes, for example, the use of delegation signer resource records in the DNS. The DNS security controls reflect (and are referenced from) OMB Memorandum 08-23. Information systems that use technologies other than the DNS to map between host/service names and network addresses provide other means to assure the authenticity and integrity of response data. Related controls: AU-10, SC-8, SC-12, SC-13, SC-21, SC-22.    	Providers shall assure reasonable information security across their information supply chain by performing an annual review. The review shall include all partners/third party-providers upon which their information supply chain depends on.
0	List of company-approved products	Provisioning user access (e.g., employees, contractors, customers (tenants), business partners, and/or supplier relationships) to data and organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) applications, infrastructure systems, and network components shall be authorized by the organization's management prior to access being granted and appropriately restricted as per established policies and procedures. Upon request, provider shall inform customer (tenant) of this user access, especially if customer (tenant) data is used as part the service and/or customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of control.
0	Enable only necessary services, protocols, daemons, etc., as required for the function of the system.	Third-party service providers shall demonstrate compliance with information security and confidentiality, access control, service definitions, and delivery level agreements included in third-party contracts. Third-party reports, records, and services shall undergo audit and review at least annually to govern and maintain compliance with the service delivery agreements.
1	Automatically lock workstation sessions after a standard period of inactivity.	Policies and procedures shall be established and maintained in support of data security to include (confidentiality, integrity, and availability) across multiple system interfaces, jurisdictions, and business functions to prevent improper disclosure, alteration, or destruction.
0	The organization:  a. Develops, documents, and disseminates to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]:    1. A media protection policy that addresses purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment, coordination among organizational entities, and compliance; and    2. Procedures to facilitate the implementation of the media protection policy and associated media protection controls; and  b. Reviews and updates the current:    1. Media protection policy [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and    2. Media protection procedures [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to triage security-related events and ensure timely and thorough incident management, as per established IT service management policies and procedures.
0	The organization only permits the use of shared/group accounts that meet [Assignment: organization-defined conditions for establishing shared/group accounts]. 	A reliable and mutually agreed upon external time source shall be used to synchronize the system clocks of all relevant information processing systems to facilitate tracing and reconstitution of activity timelines.
0	Changes to the provision of services, including maintaining and improving existing information security policies, procedures and controls, shall be managed, taking account of the criticality of business systems and processes involved and re-assessment of risks.	Changes to the provision of services, including maintaining and improving existing information security policies, procedures and controls, shall be managed, taking account of the criticality of business systems and processes involved and re-assessment of risks.
0	Establish and implement firewall and router configuration standards that include the following:	User access policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for ensuring appropriate identity, entitlement, and access management for all internal corporate and customer (tenant) users with access to data and organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) application interfaces and infrastructure network and systems components. These policies, procedures, processes, and measures must incorporate the following:  • Procedures, supporting roles, and responsibilities for provisioning and de-provisioning user account entitlements following the rule of least privilege based on job function (e.g., internal employee and contingent staff personnel changes, customer-controlled access, suppliers' business relationships, or other third-party business relationships)  • Business case considerations for higher levels of assurance and multi-factor authentication secrets (e.g., management interfaces, key generation, remote access, segregation of duties, emergency access, large-scale provisioning or geographically-distributed deployments, and personnel redundancy for critical systems)  • Access segmentation to sessions and data in multi-tenant architectures by any third party (e.g., provider and/or other customer (tenant))  • Identity trust verification and service-to-service application (API) and information processing interoperability (e.g., SSO and federation)  • Account credential lifecycle management from instantiation through revocation  • Account credential and/or identity store minimization or re-use when feasible  • Authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules for access to data and sessions (e.g., encryption and strong/multi-factor, expireable, non-shared authentication secrets)  • Permissions and supporting capabilities for customer (tenant) controls over authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules for access to data and sessions  • Adherence to applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance requirements
1	Modifications to software packages shall be discouraged, limited to necessary changes and all changes shall be strictly controlled.	External business partners shall adhere to the same policies and procedures for change management, release, and testing as internal developers within the organization (e.g., ITIL service management processes).
1	Create the incident response plan to be implemented in the event of system breach. Ensure the plan addresses the following, at a minimum:  Roles, responsibilities, and communication and contact strategies in the event of a compromise including notification of the payment brands, at a minimum  Specific incident response procedures  Business recovery and continuity procedures  Data backup processes  Analysis of legal requirements for reporting compromises  Coverage and responses of all critical system components  Reference or inclusion of incident response procedures from the payment brands.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for defining and adhering to the retention period of any critical asset as per established policies and procedures, as well as applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance obligations. Backup and recovery measures shall be incorporated as part of business continuity planning and tested accordingly for effectiveness.
0	Information involved in electronic messaging shall be appropriately protected.	Information involved in electronic messaging shall be appropriately protected.
0	Limit access to system components and cardholder data to only those individuals whose job requires such access.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to protect wireless network environments, including the following:  • Perimeter firewalls implemented and configured to restrict unauthorized traffic  • Security settings enabled with strong encryption for authentication and transmission, replacing vendor default settings (e.g., encryption keys, passwords, and SNMP community strings)  • User access to wireless network devices restricted to authorized personnel  • The capability to detect the presence of unauthorized (rogue) wireless network devices for a timely disconnect from the network
1	When operating platforms are changed, business critical applications shall be reviewed and tested to ensure there is no adverse impact on organizational operations or security.	The BYOD policy and supporting awareness training clearly states the approved applications, application stores, and application extensions and plugins that may be used for BYOD usage.
0	When operating platforms are changed, business critical applications shall be reviewed and tested to ensure there is no adverse impact on organizational operations or security.	Keys must have identifiable owners (binding keys to identities) and there shall be key management policies.
0	Deliver training to address the skills gap identified to positively impact workforce members’ security behavior.	Policies and procedures shall be established for the secure disposal of equipment (by asset type) used outside the organization's premises. This shall include a wiping solution or destruction process that renders recovery of information impossible. The erasure shall consist of a full overwrite of the drive to ensure that the erased drive is released to inventory for reuse and deployment, or securely stored until it can be destroyed.
1	Access to program source code shall be restricted.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to ensure the development and/or acquisition of new data, physical or virtual applications, infrastructure network, and systems components, or any corporate, operations and/or data center facilities have been pre-authorized by the organization's business leadership or other accountable business role or function.
1	Implement processes to test for the presence of wireless access points (802.11), and detect and identify all authorized and unauthorized wireless access points on a quarterly basis.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to manage business risks associated with permitting mobile device access to corporate resources and may require the implementation of higher assurance compensating controls and acceptable-use policies and procedures (e.g., mandated security training, stronger identity, entitlement and access controls, and device monitoring).
0	When operating platforms are changed, business critical applications shall be reviewed and tested to ensure there is no adverse impact on organizational operations or security.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to restrict the installation of unauthorized software on organizationally-owned or managed user end-point devices (e.g., issued workstations, laptops, and mobile devices) and IT infrastructure network and systems components.
1	A policy on the use of cryptographic controls for protection of information shall be developed and implemented.	Keys must have identifiable owners (binding keys to identities) and there shall be key management policies.
0	• Are any high-privilege roles allocated to the same person? Does this allocation break the segregation of duties or least privilege rules?	Upon termination of workforce personnel and/or expiration of external business relationships, all organizationally-owned assets shall be returned within an established period.
1	Address common coding vulnerabilities in software-development processes as follows:  Train developers at least annually in up- to-date secure coding techniques, including how to avoid common coding vulnerabilities.  Develop applications based on secure coding guidelines.	Applications and programming interfaces (APIs) shall be designed, developed, deployed, and tested in accordance with leading industry standards (e.g., OWASP for web applications) and adhere to applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance obligations.
1	Access to program source code shall be restricted.	External business partners shall adhere to the same policies and procedures for change management, release, and testing as internal developers within the organization (e.g., ITIL service management processes).
0	Ensure that security policies and operational procedures for identification and authentication are documented, in use, and known to all affected parties.	The provider shall use secure (e.g., non-clear text and authenticated) standardized network protocols for the import and export of data and to manage the service, and shall make available a document to consumers (tenants) detailing the relevant interoperability and portability standards that are involved.
0	Deploy system configuration management tools that will automatically enforce and redeploy configuration settings to systems at regularly scheduled intervals.	Access to, and use of, audit tools that interact with the organization's information systems shall be appropriately segregated and access restricted to prevent inappropriate disclosure and tampering of log data.
1	Physical protection against damage from fire, flood, earthquake, explosion, civil unrest, and other forms of natural or man-made disaster shall be designed and applied.	Physical protection against damage from natural causes and disasters, as well as deliberate attacks, including fire, flood, atmospheric electrical discharge, solar induced geomagnetic storm, wind, earthquake, tsunami, explosion, nuclear accident, volcanic activity, biological hazard, civil unrest, mudslide, tectonic activity, and other forms of natural or man-made disaster shall be anticipated, designed, and have countermeasures applied.
1	Disable peer-to-peer (ad hoc) wireless network capabilities on wireless clients.	Each operating system shall be hardened to provide only necessary ports, protocols, and services to meet business needs and have in place supporting technical controls such as: antivirus, file integrity monitoring, and logging as part of their baseline operating build standard or template.
0	Ensure that security policies and operational procedures for security monitoring and testing are documented, in use, and known to all affected parties.	Policies and procedures shall be established for the labeling, handling, and security of data and objects which contain data. Mechanisms for label inheritance shall be implemented for objects that act as aggregate containers for data.
0	Administer user accounts, including additions, deletions, and modifications.	All data shall be designated with stewardship, with assigned responsibilities defined, documented, and communicated.
1	• Define those services that are outsourced or subcontracted in your service delivery supply chain that are key to the security (including availability) of your operations.	There shall be a defined and documented method for determining the impact of any disruption to the organization (cloud provider, cloud consumer) that must incorporate the following:  • Identify critical products and services  • Identify all dependencies, including processes, applications, business partners, and third party service providers  • Understand threats to critical products and services  • Determine impacts resulting from planned or unplanned disruptions and how these vary over time  • Establish the maximum tolerable period for disruption  • Establish priorities for recovery  • Establish recovery time objectives for resumption of critical products and services within their maximum tolerable period of disruption  • Estimate the resources required for resumption
0	• Detail your change control procedure and policy. This should also include the process used to re-assess risks as a result of changes and clarify whether the outputs are available to end customers.	The provider shall use an industry-recognized virtualization platform and standard virtualization formats (e.g., OVF) to help ensure interoperability, and shall have documented custom changes made to any hypervisor in use and all solution-specific virtualization hooks available for customer review.
0	Ensure that all system components and software are protected from known vulnerabilities by installing applicable vendor- supplied security patches. Install critical security patches within one month of release.	The provider shall make security incident information available to all affected customers and providers periodically through electronic methods (e.g., portals).
1	The organization employs assessors or assessment teams with [Assignment: organization-defined level of independence] to conduct security control assessments.	Audit plans shall be developed and maintained to address business process disruptions. Auditing plans shall focus on reviewing the effectiveness of the implementation of security operations. All audit activities must be agreed upon prior to executing any audits.
1	Managers shall regularly review the compliance of information processing and procedures within their area of responsibility with the appropriate security policies, standards and any other security requirements.	Providers shall inspect, account for, and work with their cloud supply-chain partners to correct data quality errors and associated risks. Providers shall design and implement controls to mitigate and contain data security risks through proper separation of duties, role-based access, and least-privilege access for all personnel within their supply chain.
0	Ensure that security policies and operational procedures for identification and authentication are documented, in use, and known to all affected parties.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to inventory, document, and maintain data flows for data that is resident (permanently or temporarily) within the service's geographically distributed (physical and virtual) applications and infrastructure network and systems components and/or shared with other third parties to ascertain any regulatory, statutory, or supply chain agreement (SLA) compliance impact, and to address any other business risks associated with the data. Upon request, provider shall inform customer (tenant) of compliance impact and risk, especially if customer data is used as part of the services.
1	When operating platforms are changed, business critical applications shall be reviewed and tested to ensure there is no adverse impact on organizational operations or security.	The company shall have a documented policy prohibiting the installation of non-approved applications or approved applications not obtained through a pre-identified application store.
0	Physically or logically segregated systems should be used to isolate and run software that is required for business operations but incur higher risk for the organization.	Network architecture diagrams shall clearly identify high-risk environments and data flows that may have legal compliance impacts. Technical measures shall be implemented and shall apply defense-in-depth techniques (e.g., deep packet analysis, traffic throttling, and black-holing) for detection and timely response to network-based attacks associated with anomalous ingress or egress traffic patterns (e.g., MAC spoofing and ARP poisoning attacks) and/or distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) attacks.
0	Segment the network based on the label or classification level of the information stored on the servers, locate all sensitive information on separated Virtual Local Area Networks (VLANs).	User access policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for ensuring appropriate identity, entitlement, and access management for all internal corporate and customer (tenant) users with access to data and organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) application interfaces and infrastructure network and systems components. These policies, procedures, processes, and measures must incorporate the following:  • Procedures, supporting roles, and responsibilities for provisioning and de-provisioning user account entitlements following the rule of least privilege based on job function (e.g., internal employee and contingent staff personnel changes, customer-controlled access, suppliers' business relationships, or other third-party business relationships)  • Business case considerations for higher levels of assurance and multi-factor authentication secrets (e.g., management interfaces, key generation, remote access, segregation of duties, emergency access, large-scale provisioning or geographically-distributed deployments, and personnel redundancy for critical systems)  • Access segmentation to sessions and data in multi-tenant architectures by any third party (e.g., provider and/or other customer (tenant))  • Identity trust verification and service-to-service application (API) and information processing interoperability (e.g., SSO and federation)  • Account credential lifecycle management from instantiation through revocation  • Account credential and/or identity store minimization or re-use when feasible  • Authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules for access to data and sessions (e.g., encryption and strong/multi-factor, expireable, non-shared authentication secrets)  • Permissions and supporting capabilities for customer (tenant) controls over authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules for access to data and sessions  • Adherence to applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance requirements
1	Define access needs for each role, including:  System components and data resources that each role needs to access for their job function  Level of privilege required (for example, user, administrator, etc.) for accessing resources.	Policies and procedures are established for permissible storage and access of identities used for authentication to ensure identities are only accessible based on rules of least privilege and replication limitation only to users explicitly defined as business necessary.
0	Managers shall regularly review the compliance of information processing and procedures within their area of responsibility with the appropriate security policies, standards and any other security requirements.	The provider shall make security incident information available to all affected customers and providers periodically through electronic methods (e.g., portals).
0	Never send unprotected PANs by end- user messaging technologies (for example, e- mail, instant messaging, SMS, chat, etc.).	Network environments and virtual instances shall be designed and configured to restrict and monitor traffic between trusted and untrusted connections. These configurations shall be reviewed at least annually, and supported by a documented justification for use for all allowed services, protocols, ports, and by compensating controls.
1	The organization:  a. Conducts an assessment of risk, including the likelihood and magnitude of harm, from the unauthorized access, use, disclosure, disruption, modification, or destruction of the information system and the information it processes, stores, or transmits;  b. Documents risk assessment results in [Selection: security plan; risk assessment report; [Assignment: organization-defined document]];  c. Reviews risk assessment results [Assignment: organization-defined frequency];  d. Disseminates risk assessment results to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]; and  e. Updates the risk assessment [Assignment: organization-defined frequency] or whenever there are significant changes to the information system or environment of operation (including the identification of new threats and vulnerabilities), or other conditions that may impact the security state of the system.	The organization's business leadership (or other accountable business role or function) shall review the information security policy at planned intervals or as a result of changes to the organization to ensure its continuing alignment with the security strategy, effectiveness, accuracy, relevance, and applicability to legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance obligations.
1	Information systems shall be regularly reviewed for compliance with the organization's information security policies and standards.	The company shall have a documented policy prohibiting the installation of non-approved applications or approved applications not obtained through a pre-identified application store.
1	Ensure that there are written incident response plans that define roles of personnel as well as phases of incident handling/management.	The provider shall make security incident information available to all affected customers and providers periodically through electronic methods (e.g., portals).
0	Information systems shall be regularly reviewed for compliance with the organization's information security policies and standards.	Physical protection against damage from natural causes and disasters, as well as deliberate attacks, including fire, flood, atmospheric electrical discharge, solar induced geomagnetic storm, wind, earthquake, tsunami, explosion, nuclear accident, volcanic activity, biological hazard, civil unrest, mudslide, tectonic activity, and other forms of natural or man-made disaster shall be anticipated, designed, and have countermeasures applied.
0	Information security shall be addressed in project management, regardless of the type of the project.	Information security shall be addressed in project management, regardless of the type of the project.
1	o Does the provider have a formal process in place for detecting, identifying, analyzing and responding to incidents?	Mechanisms shall be put in place to monitor and quantify the types, volumes, and costs of information security incidents.
1	Background verification checks on all candidates for employment shall be carried out in accordance with relevant laws, regulations and ethics and shall be proportional to the business requirements, the classification of the information to be accessed and the perceived risks.	Pursuant to local laws, regulations, ethics, and contractual constraints, all employment candidates, contractors, and third parties shall be subject to background verification proportional to the data classification to be accessed, the business requirements, and acceptable risk.
0	The organization’s application whitelisting software must ensure that only authorized software libraries (such as *.dll, *.ocx, *.so, etc.) are allowed to load into a system process.	External business partners shall adhere to the same policies and procedures for change management, release, and testing as internal developers within the organization (e.g., ITIL service management processes).
0	The organization [Selection: restricts; prohibits] the use of [Assignment: organization- defined types of information system media] on [Assignment: organization-defined information systems or system components] using [Assignment: organization-defined security safeguards].	The organization [Selection: restricts; prohibits] the use of [Assignment: organization- defined types of information system media] on [Assignment: organization-defined information systems or system components] using [Assignment: organization-defined security safeguards].
1	Users shall only be provided with access to the network and network services that they have been specifically authorized to use.	Provisioning user access (e.g., employees, contractors, customers (tenants), business partners, and/or supplier relationships) to data and organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) applications, infrastructure systems, and network components shall be authorized by the organization's management prior to access being granted and appropriately restricted as per established policies and procedures. Upon request, provider shall inform customer (tenant) of this user access, especially if customer (tenant) data is used as part the service and/or customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of control.
0	The organization analyzes changes to the information system to determine potential security impacts prior to change implementation.	To reduce the risks from environmental threats, hazards, and opportunities for unauthorized access, equipment shall be kept away from locations subject to high probability environmental risks and supplemented by redundant equipment located at a reasonable distance.
0	The information system implements cryptographic mechanisms to prevent unauthorized disclosure and modification of [Assignment: organization-defined information] on [Assignment: organization-defined information system components].	A centralized, mobile device management solution shall be deployed to all mobile devices permitted to store, transmit, or process customer data.
1	Mask PAN when displayed (the first six and last four digits are the maximum number of digits to be displayed), such that only personnel with a legitimate business need can see more than the first six/last four digits of the PAN.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for the use of encryption protocols for protection of sensitive data in storage (e.g., file servers, databases, and end-user workstations), data in use (memory), and data in transmission (e.g., system interfaces, over public networks, and electronic messaging) as per applicable legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations.
1	All relevant legislative statutory, regulatory, contractual requirements and the organization's approach to meet these requirements shall be explicitly identified, documented and kept up to date for each information system and the organization.	The company shall have a documented application validation process to test for mobile device, operating system, and application compatibility issues.
1	• Where will the data be physically located?	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to inventory, document, and maintain data flows for data that is resident (permanently or temporarily) within the service's geographically distributed (physical and virtual) applications and infrastructure network and systems components and/or shared with other third parties to ascertain any regulatory, statutory, or supply chain agreement (SLA) compliance impact, and to address any other business risks associated with the data. Upon request, provider shall inform customer (tenant) of compliance impact and risk, especially if customer data is used as part of the services.
0	The organization conducts capacity planning so that necessary capacity for information processing, telecommunications, and environmental support exists during contingency operations.	Information system documentation (e.g., administrator and user guides, and architecture diagrams) shall be made available to authorized personnel to ensure the following:  • Configuring, installing, and operating the information system  • Effectively using the system’s security features
0	To ensure  that information  receives  an  appropriate level of protection  in  accordance with  its importance to the organization.	The provider shall ensure the integrity of all virtual machine images at all times. Any changes made to virtual machine images must be logged and an alert raised regardless of their running state (e.g., dormant, off, or running). The results of a change or move of an image and the subsequent validation of the image's integrity must be immediately available to customers through electronic methods (e.g., portals or alerts).
0	Leverage the Advanced Encryption Standard (AES) to encrypt wireless data in transit.	Policies and procedures shall be established to store and manage identity information about every person who accesses IT infrastructure and to determine their level of access. Policies shall also be developed to control access to network resources based on user identity.
0	Information involved in electronic messaging shall be appropriately protected.	All structured and unstructured data shall be available to the customer and provided to them upon request in an industry-standard format (e.g., .doc, .xls, .pdf, logs, and flat files).
0	Send all malware detection events to enterprise anti-malware administration tools and event log servers for analysis and alerting.	Internal corporate or customer (tenant) user account credentials shall be restricted as per the following, ensuring appropriate identity, entitlement, and access management and in accordance with established policies and procedures:  • Identity trust verification and service-to-service application (API) and information processing interoperability (e.g., SSO and Federation)  • Account credential lifecycle management from instantiation through revocation  • Account credential and/or identity store minimization or re-use when feasible  • Adherence to industry acceptable and/or regulatory compliant authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules (e.g., strong/multi-factor, expireable, non-shared authentication secrets)
1	Ensure that there are written incident response plans that define roles of personnel as well as phases of incident handling/management.	Proper forensic procedures, including chain of custody, are required for the presentation of evidence to support potential legal action subject to the relevant jurisdiction after an information security incident. Upon notification, customers and/or other external business partners impacted by a security breach shall be given the opportunity to participate as is legally permissible in the forensic investigation.
1	A formal user access provisioning process shall be implemented to assign or revoke access rights for all user types to all systems and services.	Internal corporate or customer (tenant) user account credentials shall be restricted as per the following, ensuring appropriate identity, entitlement, and access management and in accordance with established policies and procedures:  • Identity trust verification and service-to-service application (API) and information processing interoperability (e.g., SSO and Federation)  • Account credential lifecycle management from instantiation through revocation  • Account credential and/or identity store minimization or re-use when feasible  • Adherence to industry acceptable and/or regulatory compliant authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules (e.g., strong/multi-factor, expireable, non-shared authentication secrets)
1	The organization provides basic security awareness training to information system users (including managers, senior executives, and contractors):  a. As part of initial training for new users;  b. When required by information system changes; and  c. [Assignment: organization-defined frequency] thereafter.	The provider shall have a documented mobile device policy that includes a documented definition for mobile devices and the acceptable usage and requirements for all mobile devices. The provider shall post and communicate the policy and requirements through the company's security awareness and training program.
0	The organization develops alternate processing site agreements that contain priority-of-service provisions in accordance with organizational availability requirements (including recovery time objectives).	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting processes and technical measures implemented, for timely detection of vulnerabilities within organizationally-owned or managed applications, infrastructure network and system components (e.g., network vulnerability assessment, penetration testing) to ensure the efficiency of implemented security controls. A risk-based model for prioritizing remediation of identified vulnerabilities shall be used. Changes shall be managed through a change management process for all vendor-supplied patches, configuration changes, or changes to the organization's internally developed software. Upon request, the provider informs customer (tenant) of policies and procedures and identified weaknesses especially if customer (tenant) data is used as part the service and/or customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of control.
0	A formal user access provisioning process shall be implemented to assign or revoke access rights for all user types to all systems and services.	Physical protection against damage from natural causes and disasters, as well as deliberate attacks, including fire, flood, atmospheric electrical discharge, solar induced geomagnetic storm, wind, earthquake, tsunami, explosion, nuclear accident, volcanic activity, biological hazard, civil unrest, mudslide, tectonic activity, and other forms of natural or man-made disaster shall be anticipated, designed, and have countermeasures applied.
1	All relevant legislative statutory, regulatory, contractual requirements and the organization's approach to meet these requirements shall be explicitly identified, documented and kept up to date for each information system and the organization.	Password policies, applicable to mobile devices, shall be documented and enforced through technical controls on all company devices or devices approved for BYOD usage, and shall prohibit the changing of password/PIN lengths and authentication requirements.
1	Information involved in online transactions shall be protected to prevent incomplete transmission, misrouting, unauthorized message alteration, unauthorized disclosure, unauthorized message duplication or replay.	Data related to electronic commerce (ecommerce) that traverses public networks shall be appropriately classified and protected from fraudulent activity, unauthorized disclosure, or modification in such a manner to prevent contract dispute and compromise of data.
0	Time settings are received from industry-accepted time sources.	The BYOD policy shall define the device and eligibility requirements to allow for BYOD usage.
0	• Can the provider confirm that the virtualised image does not contain the authentication credentials?	Multi-tenant organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) applications, and infrastructure system and network components, shall be designed, developed, deployed, and configured such that provider and customer (tenant) user access is appropriately segmented from other tenant users, based on the following considerations:  • Established policies and procedures  • Isolation of business critical assets and/or sensitive user data, and sessions that mandate stronger internal controls and high levels of assurance  • Compliance with legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations
0	The information system performs an integrity check of [Assignment: organization-defined software, firmware, and information] [Selection (one or more): at startup; at [Assignment: organization-defined transitional states or security-relevant events]; [Assignment: organization- defined frequency]].	The information system performs an integrity check of [Assignment: organization-defined software, firmware, and information] [Selection (one or more): at startup; at [Assignment: organization-defined transitional states or security-relevant events]; [Assignment: organization- defined frequency]].
1	• Does the client credential system allow for the separation of roles and responsibilities and for multiple domains (or a single key for multiple domains, roles and responsibilities)?	User access policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for restricting user access as per defined segregation of duties to address business risks associated with a user-role conflict of interest.
1	Review custom code prior to release to production or customers in order to identify any potential coding vulnerability (using either manual or automated processes) to include at least the following:  Code changes are reviewed by individuals other than the originating code author, and by individuals knowledgeable about code-review techniques and secure coding practices.  Code reviews ensure code is developed according to secure coding guidelines  Appropriate corrections are implemented prior to release.  Code-review results are reviewed and approved by management prior to release.(Continued on next page)PCI DSS Requirements	External business partners shall adhere to the same policies and procedures for change management, release, and testing as internal developers within the organization (e.g., ITIL service management processes).
0	Limit access to system components and cardholder data to only those individuals whose job requires such access.	There shall be a defined and documented method for determining the impact of any disruption to the organization (cloud provider, cloud consumer) that must incorporate the following:  • Identify critical products and services  • Identify all dependencies, including processes, applications, business partners, and third party service providers  • Understand threats to critical products and services  • Determine impacts resulting from planned or unplanned disruptions and how these vary over time  • Establish the maximum tolerable period for disruption  • Establish priorities for recovery  • Establish recovery time objectives for resumption of critical products and services within their maximum tolerable period of disruption  • Estimate the resources required for resumption
1	The organization monitors physical intrusion alarms and surveillance equipment. 	Ingress and egress points such as service areas and other points where unauthorized personnel may enter the premises shall be monitored, controlled and, if possible, isolated from data storage and processing facilities to prevent unauthorized data corruption, compromise, and loss.
0	Review logs of all other system components periodically based on the organization’s policies and risk management strategy, as determined by the organization’s annual risk assessment.	Providers shall inspect, account for, and work with their cloud supply-chain partners to correct data quality errors and associated risks. Providers shall design and implement controls to mitigate and contain data security risks through proper separation of duties, role-based access, and least-privilege access for all personnel within their supply chain.
1	Ensure that security policies and operational procedures for restricting access to cardholder data are documented, in use, and known to all affected parties.	Policies and procedures shall be established to store and manage identity information about every person who accesses IT infrastructure and to determine their level of access. Policies shall also be developed to control access to network resources based on user identity.
1	Privacy and protection of personally identifiable information shall be ensured as required in relevant legislation and regulation where applicable.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for the use of encryption protocols for protection of sensitive data in storage (e.g., file servers, databases, and end-user workstations), data in use (memory), and data in transmission (e.g., system interfaces, over public networks, and electronic messaging) as per applicable legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations.
1	• Does the provider maintain documented operating procedures for information systems?	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for appropriate IT governance and service management to ensure appropriate planning, delivery, and support of the organization's IT capabilities supporting business functions, workforce, and/or customers based on industry acceptable standards (i.e., ITIL v4 and COBIT 5). Additionally, policies and procedures shall include defined roles and responsibilities supported by regular workforce training.
1	• Is the hardened virtual image protected from unauthorized access?	Timely de-provisioning (revocation or modification) of user access to data and organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) applications, infrastructure systems, and network components, shall be implemented as per established policies and procedures and based on user's change in status (e.g., termination of employment or other business relationship, job change, or transfer). Upon request, provider shall inform customer (tenant) of these changes, especially if customer (tenant) data is used as part the service and/or customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of control.
0	Install perimeter firewalls between all wireless networks and the cardholder data environment, and configure these firewalls to deny or, if traffic is necessary for business purposes, permit only authorized traffic between the wireless environment and the cardholder data environment.	Utility programs capable of potentially overriding system, object, network, virtual machine, and application controls shall be restricted.
1	The organization:  a. Determines the types of changes to the information system that are configuration-controlled;  b. Reviews proposed configuration-controlled changes to the information system and approves or disapproves such changes with explicit consideration for security impact analyses;  c. Documents configuration change decisions associated with the information system;  d. Implements approved configuration-controlled changes to the information system;  e. Retains records of configuration-controlled changes to the information system for [Assignment: organization-defined time period];  f. Audits and reviews activities associated with configuration-controlled changes to the information system; and  g. Coordinates and provides oversight for configuration change control activities through [Assignment: organization-defined configuration change control element (e.g., committee, board] that convenes [Selection (one or more): [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; [Assignment: organization-defined configuration change conditions]].	Organizations shall follow a defined quality change control and testing process (e.g., ITIL Service Management) with established baselines, testing, and release standards that focus on system availability, confidentiality, and integrity of systems and services.
1	Develop configuration standards for all system components. Assure that these standards address all known security vulnerabilities and are consistent with industry-accepted system hardening standards.	Each operating system shall be hardened to provide only necessary ports, protocols, and services to meet business needs and have in place supporting technical controls such as: antivirus, file integrity monitoring, and logging as part of their baseline operating build standard or template.
0	• Can the provider confirm that the virtualised image does not contain the authentication credentials?	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to restrict the installation of unauthorized software on organizationally-owned or managed user end-point devices (e.g., issued workstations, laptops, and mobile devices) and IT infrastructure network and systems components.
0	The organization:  a. Maintains temperature and humidity levels within the facility where the information system resides at [Assignment: organization-defined acceptable levels]; and  b. Monitors temperature and humidity levels [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	The provider shall make security incident information available to all affected customers and providers periodically through electronic methods (e.g., portals).
0	Managers shall regularly review the compliance of information processing and procedures within their area of responsibility with the appropriate security policies, standards and any other security requirements.	Upon termination of workforce personnel and/or expiration of external business relationships, all organizationally-owned assets shall be returned within an established period.
1	Changes to systems within the development lifecycle shall be controlled by the use of formal change control procedures.	Organizations shall follow a defined quality change control and testing process (e.g., ITIL Service Management) with established baselines, testing, and release standards that focus on system availability, confidentiality, and integrity of systems and services.
1	The organization:  a. Schedules, performs, documents, and reviews records of maintenance and repairs on information system components in accordance with manufacturer or vendor specifications and/or organizational requirements;  b. Approves and monitors all maintenance activities, whether performed on site or remotely and whether the equipment is serviced on site or removed to another location;  c. Requires that [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles] explicitly approve the removal of the information system or system components from organizational facilities for off-site maintenance or repairs;  d. Sanitizes equipment to remove all information from associated media prior to removal from organizational facilities for off-site maintenance or repairs;  e. Checks all potentially impacted security controls to verify that the controls are still functioning properly following maintenance or repair actions; and  f. Includes [Assignment: organization-defined maintenance-related information] in organizational maintenance records.	Policies and procedures shall be established for the secure disposal of equipment (by asset type) used outside the organization's premises. This shall include a wiping solution or destruction process that renders recovery of information impossible. The erasure shall consist of a full overwrite of the drive to ensure that the erased drive is released to inventory for reuse and deployment, or securely stored until it can be destroyed.
0	Designate specific personnel to be available on a 24/7 basis to respond to alerts.	Upon termination of workforce personnel and/or expiration of external business relationships, all organizationally-owned assets shall be returned within an established period.
1	o Is this process rehearsed to check that incident handling processes are effective? Does the provider also ensure, during the rehearsal, that everyone within the cloud provider’s support organisation is aware of the processes and of their roles during incident handling (both during the incident and post analysis)?	Business continuity and security incident response plans shall be subject to testing at planned intervals or upon significant organizational or environmental changes. Incident response plans shall involve impacted customers (tenant) and other business relationships that represent critical intra-supply chain business process dependencies.
0	The organization correlates information from monitoring tools employed throughout the information system.	The organization correlates information from monitoring tools employed throughout the information system.
0	The organization prohibits the direct connection of an [Assignment: organization-defined unclassified, non-national security system] to an external network without the use of [Assignment; organization-defined boundary protection device].	Changes to mobile device operating systems, patch levels, and/or applications shall be managed through the company's change management processes.
1	The organization establishes terms and conditions, consistent with any trust relationships established with other organizations owning, operating, and/or maintaining external information systems, allowing authorized individuals to:  a. Access the information system from external information systems; and  b. Process, store, or transmit organization-controlled information using external information systems.	The mobile device policy shall prohibit the circumvention of built-in security controls on mobile devices (e.g., jailbreaking or rooting) and shall enforce the prohibition through detective and preventative controls on the device or through a centralized device management system (e.g., mobile device management).
1	Follow up exceptions and anomalies identified during the review process.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to restrict the installation of unauthorized software on organizationally-owned or managed user end-point devices (e.g., issued workstations, laptops, and mobile devices) and IT infrastructure network and systems components.
0	The organization handles and retains information within the information system and information output from the system in accordance with applicable federal laws, Executive Orders, directives, policies, regulations, standards, and operational requirements.	Information system documentation (e.g., administrator and user guides, and architecture diagrams) shall be made available to authorized personnel to ensure the following:  • Configuring, installing, and operating the information system  • Effectively using the system’s security features
0	The organization employs integrity verification tools to detect unauthorized changes to [Assignment: organization-defined software, firmware, and information].	The provider shall perform annual internal assessments of conformance to, and effectiveness of, its policies, procedures, and supporting measures and metrics.
0	Implement a PCI DSS compliance program	Implement a PCI DSS compliance program
0	All access to any database containing cardholder data (including access by applications, administrators, and all other users) is restricted as follows:  All user access to, user queries of, and user actions on databases are through programmatic methods.  Only database administrators have the ability to directly access or query databases.  Application IDs for database applications can only be used by the applications (and not by individual users or other non-application processes).	A centralized, mobile device management solution shall be deployed to all mobile devices permitted to store, transmit, or process customer data.
0	Information systems shall be regularly reviewed for compliance with the organization's information security policies and standards.	Policies and procedures shall be established with supporting business processes and technical measures implemented for the secure disposal and complete removal of data from all storage media, ensuring data is not recoverable by any computer forensic means.
0	Use DNS filtering services to help block access to known malicious domains.	Use DNS filtering services to help block access to known malicious domains.
1	All relevant legislative statutory, regulatory, contractual requirements and the organization's approach to meet these requirements shall be explicitly identified, documented and kept up to date for each information system and the organization.	The mobile device policy shall require the BYOD user to perform backups of data, prohibit the usage of unapproved application stores, and require the use of anti-malware software (where supported).
0	The organization:  a. Manages the information system using [Assignment: organization-defined system development life cycle] that incorporates information security considerations;  b. Defines and documents information security roles and responsibilities throughout the system development life cycle;  c. Identifies individuals having information security roles and responsibilities; and  d. Integrates the organizational information security risk management process into system development life cycle activities.	Providers shall assure reasonable information security across their information supply chain by performing an annual review. The review shall include all partners/third party-providers upon which their information supply chain depends on.
0	Access to program source code shall be restricted.	A centralized, mobile device management solution shall be deployed to all mobile devices permitted to store, transmit, or process customer data.
1	Appropriate contacts with relevant authorities shall be maintained.	Points of contact for applicable regulation authorities, national and local law enforcement, and other legal jurisdictional authorities shall be maintained and regularly updated (e.g., change in impacted-scope and/or a change in any compliance obligation) to ensure direct compliance liaisons have been established and to be prepared for a forensic investigation requiring rapid engagement with law enforcement.
1	Managers shall regularly review the compliance of information processing and procedures within their area of responsibility with the appropriate security policies, standards and any other security requirements.	Risks shall be mitigated to an acceptable level. Acceptance levels based on risk criteria shall be established and documented in accordance with reasonable resolution time frames and stakeholder approval.
0	Develop usage policies for critical technologies and define proper use of these technologies.	Access to the organization's own developed applications, program, or object source code, or any other form of intellectual property (IP), and use of proprietary software shall be appropriately restricted following the rule of least privilege based on job function as per established user access policies and procedures.
0	Maintain standard, documented security configuration standards for all authorized network devices.	All structured and unstructured data shall be available to the customer and provided to them upon request in an industry-standard format (e.g., .doc, .xls, .pdf, logs, and flat files).
1	All identified security requirements shall be addressed before giving customers access to the organization's information or assets.	Prior to granting customers access to data, assets, and information systems, identified security, contractual, and regulatory requirements for customer access shall be addressed.
1	When operating platforms are changed, business critical applications shall be reviewed and tested to ensure there is no adverse impact on organizational operations or security.	All mobile devices permitted for use through the company BYOD program or a company-assigned mobile device shall allow for remote wipe by the company's corporate IT or shall have all company-provided data wiped by the company's corporate IT.
1	Information security events shall be reported through appropriate management channels as quickly as possible.	Higher levels of assurance are required for protection, retention, and lifecycle management of audit logs, adhering to applicable legal, statutory or regulatory compliance obligations and providing unique user access accountability to detect potentially suspicious network behaviors and/or file integrity anomalies, and to support forensic investigative capabilities in the event of a security breach.
1	The organization controls physical access to [Assignment: organization-defined information system distribution and transmission lines] within organizational facilities using [Assignment: organization-defined security safeguards].	Data center utilities services and environmental conditions (e.g., water, power, temperature and humidity controls, telecommunications, and internet connectivity) shall be secured, monitored, maintained, and tested for continual effectiveness at planned intervals to ensure protection from unauthorized interception or damage, and designed with automated fail-over or other redundancies in the event of planned or unplanned disruptions.
0	The organization prohibits the direct connection of an [Assignment: organization-defined unclassified, non-national security system] to an external network without the use of [Assignment; organization-defined boundary protection device].	The organization prohibits the direct connection of an [Assignment: organization-defined unclassified, non-national security system] to an external network without the use of [Assignment; organization-defined boundary protection device].
0	Compare all network device configuration against approved security configurations defined for each network device in use and alert when any deviations are discovered.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to manage business risks associated with permitting mobile device access to corporate resources and may require the implementation of higher assurance compensating controls and acceptable-use policies and procedures (e.g., mandated security training, stronger identity, entitlement and access controls, and device monitoring).
0	Restrict each entity’s access and privileges to its own cardholder data environment only.	Restrict each entity’s access and privileges to its own cardholder data environment only.
1	Access to program source code shall be restricted.	Organizations shall follow a defined quality change control and testing process (e.g., ITIL Service Management) with established baselines, testing, and release standards that focus on system availability, confidentiality, and integrity of systems and services.
0	When operating platforms are changed, business critical applications shall be reviewed and tested to ensure there is no adverse impact on organizational operations or security.	All personnel shall be made aware of their roles and responsibilities for:  • Maintaining awareness and compliance with established policies and procedures and applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance obligations.  • Maintaining a safe and secure working environment
1	The organization handles and retains information within the information system and information output from the system in accordance with applicable federal laws, Executive Orders, directives, policies, regulations, standards, and operational requirements.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for defining and adhering to the retention period of any critical asset as per established policies and procedures, as well as applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance obligations. Backup and recovery measures shall be incorporated as part of business continuity planning and tested accordingly for effectiveness.
0	Implement physical and/or logical controls to restrict access to publicly accessible network jacks.	Mechanisms shall be put in place to monitor and quantify the types, volumes, and costs of information security incidents.
0	Store cryptographic keys in the fewest possible locations.	Independent reviews and assessments shall be performed at least annually to ensure that the organization addresses nonconformities of established policies, standards, procedures, and compliance obligations.
0	When operating platforms are changed, business critical applications shall be reviewed and tested to ensure there is no adverse impact on organizational operations or security.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to protect wireless network environments, including the following:  • Perimeter firewalls implemented and configured to restrict unauthorized traffic  • Security settings enabled with strong encryption for authentication and transmission, replacing vendor default settings (e.g., encryption keys, passwords, and SNMP community strings)  • User access to wireless network devices restricted to authorized personnel  • The capability to detect the presence of unauthorized (rogue) wireless network devices for a timely disconnect from the network
0	To minimize the PII which is processed to what is strictly necessary for the legitimate interest pursued by the PII controller and to limit the disclosure of PII to a minimum number of internal and external parties.	Risk assessments associated with data governance requirements shall be conducted at planned intervals and shall consider the following:  • Awareness of where sensitive data is stored and transmitted across applications, databases, servers, and network infrastructure  • Compliance with defined retention periods and end-of-life disposal requirements  • Data classification and protection from unauthorized use, access, loss, destruction, and falsification
0	Default “deny-all” setting.	User access policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for ensuring appropriate identity, entitlement, and access management for all internal corporate and customer (tenant) users with access to data and organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) application interfaces and infrastructure network and systems components. These policies, procedures, processes, and measures must incorporate the following:  • Procedures, supporting roles, and responsibilities for provisioning and de-provisioning user account entitlements following the rule of least privilege based on job function (e.g., internal employee and contingent staff personnel changes, customer-controlled access, suppliers' business relationships, or other third-party business relationships)  • Business case considerations for higher levels of assurance and multi-factor authentication secrets (e.g., management interfaces, key generation, remote access, segregation of duties, emergency access, large-scale provisioning or geographically-distributed deployments, and personnel redundancy for critical systems)  • Access segmentation to sessions and data in multi-tenant architectures by any third party (e.g., provider and/or other customer (tenant))  • Identity trust verification and service-to-service application (API) and information processing interoperability (e.g., SSO and federation)  • Account credential lifecycle management from instantiation through revocation  • Account credential and/or identity store minimization or re-use when feasible  • Authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules for access to data and sessions (e.g., encryption and strong/multi-factor, expireable, non-shared authentication secrets)  • Permissions and supporting capabilities for customer (tenant) controls over authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules for access to data and sessions  • Adherence to applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance requirements
1	Managers shall regularly review the compliance of information processing and procedures within their area of responsibility with the appropriate security policies, standards and any other security requirements.	Managers are responsible for maintaining awareness of, and complying with, security policies, procedures, and standards that are relevant to their area of responsibility.
0	The organization requires that the registration process to receive [Assignment: organization- defined types of and/or specific authenticators] be conducted [Selection: in person; by a trusted third party] before [Assignment: organization-defined registration authority] with authorization by [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]. 	User access to diagnostic and configuration ports shall be restricted to authorized individuals and applications.
1	Physically or logically segregated systems should be used to isolate and run software that is required for business operations but incur higher risk for the organization.	Secured and encrypted communication channels shall be used when migrating physical servers, applications, or data to virtualized servers and, where possible, shall use a network segregated from production-level networks for such migrations.
1	Deny communications with known malicious or unused Internet IP addresses and limit access only to trusted and necessary IP address ranges at each of the organization’s network boundaries.	Secured and encrypted communication channels shall be used when migrating physical servers, applications, or data to virtualized servers and, where possible, shall use a network segregated from production-level networks for such migrations.
1	The organization:  a. Develops, documents, and disseminates to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]:    1. A physical and environmental protection policy that addresses purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment, coordination among organizational entities, and compliance; and    2. Procedures to facilitate the implementation of the physical and environmental protection policy and associated physical and environmental protection controls; and  b. Reviews and updates the current:    1. Physical and environmental protection policy [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and    2. Physical and environmental protection procedures [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	Physical protection against damage from natural causes and disasters, as well as deliberate attacks, including fire, flood, atmospheric electrical discharge, solar induced geomagnetic storm, wind, earthquake, tsunami, explosion, nuclear accident, volcanic activity, biological hazard, civil unrest, mudslide, tectonic activity, and other forms of natural or man-made disaster shall be anticipated, designed, and have countermeasures applied.
1	The software inventory system should track the name, version, publisher, and install date for all software, including operating systems authorized by the organization.	An inventory of all mobile devices used to store and access company data shall be kept and maintained. All changes to the status of these devices (i.e., operating system and patch levels, lost or decommissioned status, and to whom the device is assigned or approved for usage (BYOD)) will be included for each device in the inventory.
0	Perform quarterly internal vulnerability scans. Address vulnerabilities and perform rescans to verify all “high risk” vulnerabilities are resolved in accordance with the entity’s vulnerability ranking (per Requirement 6.1). Scans must be performed by qualified personnel.	An inventory of all mobile devices used to store and access company data shall be kept and maintained. All changes to the status of these devices (i.e., operating system and patch levels, lost or decommissioned status, and to whom the device is assigned or approved for usage (BYOD)) will be included for each device in the inventory.
1	The organization:  (a)   Limits privileges to change information system components and system-related information within a production or operational environment; and  (b)   Reviews and reevaluates privileges [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	User access shall be authorized and revalidated for entitlement appropriateness, at planned intervals, by the organization's business leadership or other accountable business role or function supported by evidence to demonstrate the organization is adhering to the rule of least privilege based on job function. For identified access violations, remediation must follow established user access policies and procedures.
1	The organization restricts privileged accounts on the information system to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles].	Access to, and use of, audit tools that interact with the organization's information systems shall be appropriately segregated and access restricted to prevent inappropriate disclosure and tampering of log data.
0	• What data storage and protection controls apply to the user directory (eg, AD, LDAP) and access to it?	External business partners shall adhere to the same policies and procedures for change management, release, and testing as internal developers within the organization (e.g., ITIL service management processes).
0	The organization:  a. Maintains visitor access records to the facility where the information system resides for [Assignment: organization-defined time period]; and  b. Reviews visitor access records [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	The organization:  a. Maintains visitor access records to the facility where the information system resides for [Assignment: organization-defined time period]; and  b. Reviews visitor access records [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].
1	Perform automated port scans on a regular basis against all systems and alert if unauthorized ports are detected on a system.	User access to diagnostic and configuration ports shall be restricted to authorized individuals and applications.
0	Incorporate multi-factor authentication for all remote network access (both user and administrator, and including third-party access for support or maintenance) originating from outside the entity’s network.	Platform and data-appropriate encryption (e.g., AES-256) in open/validated formats and standard algorithms shall be required. Keys shall not be stored in the cloud (i.e., at the cloud provider in question), but maintained by the cloud consumer or trusted key management provider. Key management and key usage shall be separated duties.
0	Establish, publish, maintain, and disseminate a security policy.	Policies and procedures shall be established to require that unattended workspaces do not have openly visible (e.g., on a desktop) sensitive documents and user computing sessions are disabled after an established period of inactivity.
1	• Are customer system images protected or encrypted?	Policies and procedures shall be established for the management of cryptographic keys in the service's cryptosystem (e.g., lifecycle management from key generation to revocation and replacement, public key infrastructure, cryptographic protocol design and algorithms used, access controls in place for secure key generation, and exchange and storage including segregation of keys used for encrypted data or sessions). Upon request, provider shall inform the customer (tenant) of changes within the cryptosystem, especially if the customer (tenant) data is used as part of the service, and/or the customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of the control.
1	Assign access based on individual personnel’s job classification and function.	Provisioning user access (e.g., employees, contractors, customers (tenants), business partners, and/or supplier relationships) to data and organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) applications, infrastructure systems, and network components shall be authorized by the organization's management prior to access being granted and appropriately restricted as per established policies and procedures. Upon request, provider shall inform customer (tenant) of this user access, especially if customer (tenant) data is used as part the service and/or customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of control.
1	o Are assets classified in terms of sensitivity and criticality? o If so, does the provider employ appropriate segregation between systems with different classifications and for a single customer who has systems with different security classifications? 	Multi-tenant organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) applications, and infrastructure system and network components, shall be designed, developed, deployed, and configured such that provider and customer (tenant) user access is appropriately segmented from other tenant users, based on the following considerations:  • Established policies and procedures  • Isolation of business critical assets and/or sensitive user data, and sessions that mandate stronger internal controls and high levels of assurance  • Compliance with legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations
1	The organization:  a. Develops, documents, and disseminates to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]:    1. A security awareness and training policy that addresses purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment, coordination among organizational entities, and compliance; and    2.  Procedures to facilitate the implementation of the security awareness and training policy and associated security awareness and training controls; and  b. Reviews and updates the current:    1. Security awareness and training policy [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and    2.  Security awareness and training procedures [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	Managers are responsible for maintaining awareness of, and complying with, security policies, procedures, and standards that are relevant to their area of responsibility.
0	The organization:  a. Develops, documents, and disseminates to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]:    1. A system and information integrity policy that addresses purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment, coordination among organizational entities, and compliance; and    2. Procedures to facilitate the implementation of the system and information integrity policy and associated system and information integrity controls; and  b. Reviews and updates the current:    1. System and information integrity policy [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and    2.  System and information integrity procedures [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	The provider shall perform annual internal assessments of conformance to, and effectiveness of, its policies, procedures, and supporting measures and metrics.
1	Ensure that all backups have at least one backup destination that is not continuously addressable through operating system calls.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for defining and adhering to the retention period of any critical asset as per established policies and procedures, as well as applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance obligations. Backup and recovery measures shall be incorporated as part of business continuity planning and tested accordingly for effectiveness.
0	Ensure logging and audit trails are enabled and unique to each entity’s cardholder data environment and consistent with PCI DSS Requirement 10.	Multi-tenant organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) applications, and infrastructure system and network components, shall be designed, developed, deployed, and configured such that provider and customer (tenant) user access is appropriately segmented from other tenant users, based on the following considerations:  • Established policies and procedures  • Isolation of business critical assets and/or sensitive user data, and sessions that mandate stronger internal controls and high levels of assurance  • Compliance with legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations
1	The organization provides a short-term uninterruptible power supply to facilitate [Selection (one or more): an orderly shutdown of the information system; transition of the information system to long-term alternate power] in the event of a primary power source loss.	Protection measures shall be put into place to react to natural and man-made threats based upon a geographically-specific business impact assessment.
1	Separation of duties shall be enforced to reduce opportunities for unauthorized or unintentional modification or misuse of the organization's assets.	User access policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for restricting user access as per defined segregation of duties to address business risks associated with a user-role conflict of interest.
0	Networks shall be managed and controlled in order to protect the organization from threats and to maintain security for the systems and applications using the network, including information in transit.	Anti-malware awareness training, specific to mobile devices, shall be included in the provider's information security awareness training.
0	Insecure cryptographic storage	Platform and data-appropriate encryption (e.g., AES-256) in open/validated formats and standard algorithms shall be required. Keys shall not be stored in the cloud (i.e., at the cloud provider in question), but maintained by the cloud consumer or trusted key management provider. Key management and key usage shall be separated duties.
0	Ensure that all anti-virus mechanisms are maintained as follows:  Are kept current,  Perform periodic scans  Generate audit logs which are retained per PCI DSS Requirement 10.7.PCI DSS Requirements	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to inventory, document, and maintain data flows for data that is resident (permanently or temporarily) within the service's geographically distributed (physical and virtual) applications and infrastructure network and systems components and/or shared with other third parties to ascertain any regulatory, statutory, or supply chain agreement (SLA) compliance impact, and to address any other business risks associated with the data. Upon request, provider shall inform customer (tenant) of compliance impact and risk, especially if customer data is used as part of the services.
1	Maintain and implement policies and procedures to manage service providers with whom cardholder data is shared, or that could affect the security of cardholder data, as follows:PCI DSS Requirements	External business partners shall adhere to the same policies and procedures for change management, release, and testing as internal developers within the organization (e.g., ITIL service management processes).
1	Equipment shall be protected from power failures and other disruptions caused by failures in supporting utilities.	Data center utilities services and environmental conditions (e.g., water, power, temperature and humidity controls, telecommunications, and internet connectivity) shall be secured, monitored, maintained, and tested for continual effectiveness at planned intervals to ensure protection from unauthorized interception or damage, and designed with automated fail-over or other redundancies in the event of planned or unplanned disruptions.
0	Always change vendor-supplied defaults and remove or disable unnecessary default accounts before installing a system on the network.	The BYOD policy shall define the device and eligibility requirements to allow for BYOD usage.
0	Ensure that only authorized scripting languages are able to run in all web browsers and email clients.	Assets must be classified in terms of business criticality, service-level expectations, and operational continuity requirements. A complete inventory of business-critical assets located at all sites and/or geographical locations and their usage over time shall be maintained and updated regularly, and assigned ownership by defined roles and responsibilities.
1	All relevant legislative statutory, regulatory, contractual requirements and the organization's approach to meet these requirements shall be explicitly identified, documented and kept up to date for each information system and the organization.	All structured and unstructured data shall be available to the customer and provided to them upon request in an industry-standard format (e.g., .doc, .xls, .pdf, logs, and flat files).
1	Ensure that local logging has been enabled on all systems and networking devices.	Higher levels of assurance are required for protection, retention, and lifecycle management of audit logs, adhering to applicable legal, statutory or regulatory compliance obligations and providing unique user access accountability to detect potentially suspicious network behaviors and/or file integrity anomalies, and to support forensic investigative capabilities in the event of a security breach.
0	Provide up-to-date PCI DSS and/or information security training at least annually to personnel with PCI DSS compliance responsibilities (as identified in A3.1.3).	Provide up-to-date PCI DSS and/or information security training at least annually to personnel with PCI DSS compliance responsibilities (as identified in A3.1.3).
1	Manage the network infrastructure across network connections that are separated from the business use of that network, relying on separate VLANs or, preferably, on entirely different physical connectivity for management sessions for network devices.	Secured and encrypted communication channels shall be used when migrating physical servers, applications, or data to virtualized servers and, where possible, shall use a network segregated from production-level networks for such migrations.
1	Ensure that backups are properly protected via physical security or encryption when they are stored, as well as when they are moved across the network. This includes remote backups and cloud services.	The mobile device policy shall require the BYOD user to perform backups of data, prohibit the usage of unapproved application stores, and require the use of anti-malware software (where supported).
0	Enable the collection of NetFlow and logging data on all network boundary devices.	Policies and procedures shall be established to require that unattended workspaces do not have openly visible (e.g., on a desktop) sensitive documents and user computing sessions are disabled after an established period of inactivity.
0	The organization responds to information spills by:  a. Identifying the specific information involved in the information system contamination;  b. Alerting [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles] of the information spill using a method of communication not associated with the spill;  c. Isolating the contaminated information system or system component;  d. Eradicating the information from the contaminated information system or component;  e. Identifying other information systems or system components that may have been subsequently contaminated; and  f. Performing other [Assignment: organization-defined actions]. Supplemental Guidance: Information spillage refers to instances where either classified or sensitive information is inadvertently placed on information systems that are not authorized to process such information. Such information spills often occur when information that is initially thought to be of lower sensitivity is transmitted to an information system and then is subsequently determined to be of higher sensitivity. At that point, corrective action is required. The nature of the organizational response is generally based upon the degree of sensitivity of the spilled information (e.g., security category or classification level), the security capabilities of the information system, the specific nature of contaminated storage media, and the access authorizations (e.g., security clearances) of individuals with authorized access to the contaminated system. The methods used to communicate information about the spill after the fact do not involve methods directly associated with the actual spill to minimize the risk of further spreading the contamination before such contamination is isolated and eradicated.	Network architecture diagrams shall clearly identify high-risk environments and data flows that may have legal compliance impacts. Technical measures shall be implemented and shall apply defense-in-depth techniques (e.g., deep packet analysis, traffic throttling, and black-holing) for detection and timely response to network-based attacks associated with anomalous ingress or egress traffic patterns (e.g., MAC spoofing and ARP poisoning attacks) and/or distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) attacks.
1	The organization:  a. Scans for vulnerabilities in the information system and hosted applications [Assignment: organization-defined frequency and/or randomly in accordance with organization-defined process] and when new vulnerabilities potentially affecting the system/applications are identified and reported;  b. Employs vulnerability scanning tools and techniques that facilitate interoperability among tools and automate parts of the vulnerability management process by using standards for:    1. Enumerating platforms, software flaws, and improper configurations;    2. Formatting checklists and test procedures; and    3. Measuring vulnerability impact;  c. Analyzes vulnerability scan reports and results from security control assessments;  d. Remediates legitimate vulnerabilities [Assignment: organization-defined response times], in accordance with an organizational assessment of risk; and  e. Shares information obtained from the vulnerability scanning process and security control assessments with [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles] to help eliminate similar vulnerabilities in other information systems (i.e., systemic weaknesses or deficiencies).	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting processes and technical measures implemented, for timely detection of vulnerabilities within organizationally-owned or managed applications, infrastructure network and system components (e.g., network vulnerability assessment, penetration testing) to ensure the efficiency of implemented security controls. A risk-based model for prioritizing remediation of identified vulnerabilities shall be used. Changes shall be managed through a change management process for all vendor-supplied patches, configuration changes, or changes to the organization's internally developed software. Upon request, the provider informs customer (tenant) of policies and procedures and identified weaknesses especially if customer (tenant) data is used as part the service and/or customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of control.
0	The organization centrally manages spam protection mechanisms.	The organization centrally manages spam protection mechanisms.
0	Utilize application whitelisting technology on all assets to ensure that only authorized software executes and all unauthorized software is blocked from executing on assets.	The organization's business leadership (or other accountable business role or function) shall review the information security policy at planned intervals or as a result of changes to the organization to ensure its continuing alignment with the security strategy, effectiveness, accuracy, relevance, and applicability to legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance obligations.
0	Maintain and implement policies and procedures to manage service providers with whom cardholder data is shared, or that could affect the security of cardholder data, as follows:PCI DSS Requirements	The company shall have a documented application validation process to test for mobile device, operating system, and application compatibility issues.
0	Use appropriate facility entry controls to limit and monitor physical access to systems in the cardholder data environment.	The mobile device policy shall require the use of encryption either for the entire device or for data identified as sensitive on all mobile devices, and shall be enforced through technology controls.
0	Develop configuration standards for all system components. Assure that these standards address all known security vulnerabilities and are consistent with industry-accepted system hardening standards.	Physical security perimeters (e.g., fences, walls, barriers, guards, gates, electronic surveillance, physical authentication mechanisms, reception desks, and security patrols) shall be implemented to safeguard sensitive data and information systems.
0	Management shall require employees, and where applicable, contractors and third-party users, to apply security in accordance with established policies and procedures of the organization.	All structured and unstructured data shall be available to the customer and provided to them upon request in an industry-standard format (e.g., .doc, .xls, .pdf, logs, and flat files).
1	Manage all network devices using multi-factor authentication and encrypted sessions.	Network environments and virtual instances shall be designed and configured to restrict and monitor traffic between trusted and untrusted connections. These configurations shall be reviewed at least annually, and supported by a documented justification for use for all allowed services, protocols, ports, and by compensating controls.
1	Ensure network engineers use a dedicated machine for all administrative tasks or tasks requiring elevated access. This machine shall be segmented from the organization’s primary network and not be allowed Internet access. This machine shall not be used for reading email, composing documents, or surfing the Internet.	Multi-tenant organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) applications, and infrastructure system and network components, shall be designed, developed, deployed, and configured such that provider and customer (tenant) user access is appropriately segmented from other tenant users, based on the following considerations:  • Established policies and procedures  • Isolation of business critical assets and/or sensitive user data, and sessions that mandate stronger internal controls and high levels of assurance  • Compliance with legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations
0	The organization authorizes access to management of audit functionality to only [Assignment: organization-defined subset of privileged users].	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to restrict the installation of unauthorized software on organizationally-owned or managed user end-point devices (e.g., issued workstations, laptops, and mobile devices) and IT infrastructure network and systems components.
0	The organization plans for the resumption of essential missions and business functions within [Assignment: organization-defined time period] of contingency plan activation.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to protect wireless network environments, including the following:  • Perimeter firewalls implemented and configured to restrict unauthorized traffic  • Security settings enabled with strong encryption for authentication and transmission, replacing vendor default settings (e.g., encryption keys, passwords, and SNMP community strings)  • User access to wireless network devices restricted to authorized personnel  • The capability to detect the presence of unauthorized (rogue) wireless network devices for a timely disconnect from the network
0	Changes to systems within the development lifecycle shall be controlled by the use of formal change control procedures.	A centralized, mobile device management solution shall be deployed to all mobile devices permitted to store, transmit, or process customer data.
0	The organization:  a. Configures the information system to provide only essential capabilities; and  b. Prohibits or restricts the use of the following functions, ports, protocols, and/or services: [Assignment: organization-defined prohibited or restricted functions, ports, protocols, and/or services].	Utility programs capable of potentially overriding system, object, network, virtual machine, and application controls shall be restricted.
0	There shall be mechanisms in place to enable the types, volumes, and costs of information security incidents to be quantified and monitored.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting processes and technical measures implemented, for timely detection of vulnerabilities within organizationally-owned or managed applications, infrastructure network and system components (e.g., network vulnerability assessment, penetration testing) to ensure the efficiency of implemented security controls. A risk-based model for prioritizing remediation of identified vulnerabilities shall be used. Changes shall be managed through a change management process for all vendor-supplied patches, configuration changes, or changes to the organization's internally developed software. Upon request, the provider informs customer (tenant) of policies and procedures and identified weaknesses especially if customer (tenant) data is used as part the service and/or customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of control.
0	The organization provides contingency training to information system users consistent with assigned roles and responsibilities:  a. Within [Assignment: organization-defined time period] of assuming a contingency role or responsibility;  b. When required by information system changes; and  c. [Assignment: organization-defined frequency] thereafter.	External business partners shall adhere to the same policies and procedures for change management, release, and testing as internal developers within the organization (e.g., ITIL service management processes).
0	Perform regular scans from outside each trusted network boundary to detect any unauthorized connections which are accessible across the boundary.	Implementers shall ensure that the security vulnerability assessment tools or services accommodate the virtualization technologies used (e.g., virtualization aware).
1	Managers shall regularly review the compliance of information processing and procedures within their area of responsibility with the appropriate security policies, standards and any other security requirements.	All mobile devices permitted for use through the company BYOD program or a company-assigned mobile device shall allow for remote wipe by the company's corporate IT or shall have all company-provided data wiped by the company's corporate IT.
1	Physically or logically segregated systems should be used to isolate and run software that is required for business operations but incur higher risk for the organization.	Multi-tenant organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) applications, and infrastructure system and network components, shall be designed, developed, deployed, and configured such that provider and customer (tenant) user access is appropriately segmented from other tenant users, based on the following considerations:  • Established policies and procedures  • Isolation of business critical assets and/or sensitive user data, and sessions that mandate stronger internal controls and high levels of assurance  • Compliance with legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations
1	Implement a methodology for penetration testing that includes the following:  Is based on industry-accepted penetration testing approaches (for example, NIST SP800-115)  Includes coverage for the entire CDE perimeter and critical systems  Includes testing from both inside and outside the network  Includes testing to validate any segmentation and scope-reduction controls  Defines application-layer penetration tests to include, at a minimum, the vulnerabilities listed in Requirement 6.5  Defines network-layer penetration tests to include components that support network functions as well as operating systems  Includes review and consideration of threats and vulnerabilities experienced in the last 12 months  Specifies retention of penetration testing results and remediation activities results.PCI DSS Requirements	Independent reviews and assessments shall be performed at least annually to ensure that the organization addresses nonconformities of established policies, standards, procedures, and compliance obligations.
0	All employees of the organization and contractors and third-party users shall receive appropriate awareness training and regular updates in organizational policies and procedures, as relevant for their job function.	Supply chain agreements (e.g., SLAs) between providers and customers (tenants) shall incorporate at least the following mutually-agreed upon provisions and/or terms:  • Scope of business relationship and services offered (e.g., customer (tenant) data acquisition, exchange and usage, feature sets and functionality, personnel and infrastructure network and systems components for service delivery and support, roles and responsibilities of provider and customer (tenant) and any subcontracted or outsourced business relationships, physical geographical location of hosted services, and any known regulatory compliance considerations)  • Information security requirements, provider and customer (tenant) primary points of contact for the duration of the business relationship, and references to detailed supporting and relevant business processes and technical measures implemented to enable effectively governance, risk management, assurance and legal, statutory and regulatory compliance obligations by all impacted business relationships  • Notification and/or pre-authorization of any changes controlled by the provider with customer (tenant) impacts  • Timely notification of a security incident (or confirmed breach) to all customers (tenants) and other business relationships impacted (i.e., up- and down-stream impacted supply chain)  • Assessment and independent verification of compliance with agreement provisions and/or terms (e.g., industry-acceptable certification, attestation audit report, or equivalent forms of assurance) without posing an unacceptable business risk of exposure to the organization being assessed  • Expiration of the business relationship and treatment of customer (tenant) data impacted  • Customer (tenant) service-to-service application (API) and data interoperability and portability requirements for application development and information exchange, usage, and integrity persistence
0	The organization:  (a)   Limits privileges to change information system components and system-related information within a production or operational environment; and  (b)   Reviews and reevaluates privileges [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to protect wireless network environments, including the following:  • Perimeter firewalls implemented and configured to restrict unauthorized traffic  • Security settings enabled with strong encryption for authentication and transmission, replacing vendor default settings (e.g., encryption keys, passwords, and SNMP community strings)  • User access to wireless network devices restricted to authorized personnel  • The capability to detect the presence of unauthorized (rogue) wireless network devices for a timely disconnect from the network
1	The organization:  a. Develops, approves, and maintains a list of individuals with authorized access to the facility where the information system resides;  b. Issues authorization credentials for facility access;  c. Reviews the access list detailing authorized facility access by individuals [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and  d. Removes individuals from the facility access list when access is no longer required.	Ingress and egress to secure areas shall be constrained and monitored by physical access control mechanisms to ensure that only authorized personnel are allowed access.
1	Broken authentication and session management.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for the use of encryption protocols for protection of sensitive data in storage (e.g., file servers, databases, and end-user workstations), data in use (memory), and data in transmission (e.g., system interfaces, over public networks, and electronic messaging) as per applicable legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations.
0	The organization:  a. Employs malicious code protection mechanisms at information system entry and exit points to detect and eradicate malicious code;  b. Updates malicious code protection mechanisms whenever new releases are available in accordance with organizational configuration management policy and procedures;  c. Configures malicious code protection mechanisms to:    1. Perform periodic scans of the information system [Assignment: organization-defined frequency] and real-time scans of files from external sources at [Selection (one or more); endpoint; network entry/exit points] as the files are downloaded, opened, or executed in accordance with organizational security policy; and    2. [Selection (one or more): block malicious code; quarantine malicious code; send alert to administrator; [Assignment: organization-defined action]] in response to malicious code detection; and  d. Addresses the receipt of false positives during malicious code detection and eradication and the resulting potential impact on the availability of the information system.	Executive and line management shall take formal action to support information security through clearly-documented direction and commitment, and shall ensure the action has been assigned.
0	The organization: (a) Establishes and administers privileged user accounts in accordance with a role-based access scheme that organizes allowed information system access and privileges into roles; (b) Monitors privileged role assignments; and (c) Takes [Assignment: organization-defined actions] when privileged role assignments are no longer appropriate.	Information system documentation (e.g., administrator and user guides, and architecture diagrams) shall be made available to authorized personnel to ensure the following:  • Configuring, installing, and operating the information system  • Effectively using the system’s security features
1	• Is the SaaS access control fine grained and can it be customised to your organisations policy?	Provisioning user access (e.g., employees, contractors, customers (tenants), business partners, and/or supplier relationships) to data and organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) applications, infrastructure systems, and network components shall be authorized by the organization's management prior to access being granted and appropriately restricted as per established policies and procedures. Upon request, provider shall inform customer (tenant) of this user access, especially if customer (tenant) data is used as part the service and/or customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of control.
1	When operating platforms are changed, business critical applications shall be reviewed and tested to ensure there is no adverse impact on organizational operations or security.	Applications and programming interfaces (APIs) shall be designed, developed, deployed, and tested in accordance with leading industry standards (e.g., OWASP for web applications) and adhere to applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance obligations.
0	Maintain standard, documented security configuration standards for all authorized network devices.	User access policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for restricting user access as per defined segregation of duties to address business risks associated with a user-role conflict of interest.
1	• Define the controls used to mitigate DDoS (distributed denial–of-service) attacks. o Defence in depth (deep packet analysis, traffic throttling, packet black-holing, etc) o Do you have defences against ‘internal’ (originating from the cloud providers networks) attacks as well as external (originating from the Internet or customer networks) attacks? 	Network environments and virtual instances shall be designed and configured to restrict and monitor traffic between trusted and untrusted connections. These configurations shall be reviewed at least annually, and supported by a documented justification for use for all allowed services, protocols, ports, and by compensating controls.
0	The organization retains audit records for [Assignment: organization-defined time period consistent with records retention policy] to provide support for after-the-fact investigations of security incidents and to meet regulatory and organizational information retention requirements.	All mobile devices permitted for use through the company BYOD program or a company-assigned mobile device shall allow for remote wipe by the company's corporate IT or shall have all company-provided data wiped by the company's corporate IT.
0	Deploy network-based Intrusion Prevention Systems (IPS) to block malicious network traffic at each of the organization’s network boundaries.	Organizations shall create and maintain a control framework which captures standards, regulatory, legal, and statutory requirements relevant for their business needs. The control framework shall be reviewed at least annually to ensure changes that could affect the business processes are reflected.
1	Ensure that all users with administrative account access use a dedicated or secondary account for elevated activities. This account should only be used for administrative activities and not internet browsing, email, or similar activities.	Access to all hypervisor management functions or administrative consoles for systems hosting virtualized systems shall be restricted to personnel based upon the principle of least privilege and supported through technical controls (e.g., two-factor authentication, audit trails, IP address filtering, firewalls, and TLS encapsulated communications to the administrative consoles).
1	Assign access based on individual personnel’s job classification and function.	Keys must have identifiable owners (binding keys to identities) and there shall be key management policies.
0	• Define the controls used to mitigate DDoS (distributed denial–of-service) attacks. o Defence in depth (deep packet analysis, traffic throttling, packet black-holing, etc) o Do you have defences against ‘internal’ (originating from the cloud providers networks) attacks as well as external (originating from the Internet or customer networks) attacks? 	The mobile device policy shall require the use of encryption either for the entire device or for data identified as sensitive on all mobile devices, and shall be enforced through technology controls.
0	The organization allocates audit record storage capacity in accordance with [Assignment: organization-defined audit record storage requirements].	The company shall have a documented policy prohibiting the installation of non-approved applications or approved applications not obtained through a pre-identified application store.
0	All information security responsibilities shall be defined and allocated.	Providers shall assure reasonable information security across their information supply chain by performing an annual review. The review shall include all partners/third party-providers upon which their information supply chain depends on.
1	Ensure that security policies and operational procedures for identification and authentication are documented, in use, and known to all affected parties.	Policies and procedures shall be established and maintained in support of data security to include (confidentiality, integrity, and availability) across multiple system interfaces, jurisdictions, and business functions to prevent improper disclosure, alteration, or destruction.
0	Formal exchange policies, procedures, and controls shall be in place to protect the exchange of information through the use of all types of communication mediums.	Aligned with the enterprise-wide framework, formal risk assessments shall be performed at least annually or at planned intervals, (and in conjunction with any changes to information systems) to determine the likelihood and impact of all identified risks using qualitative and quantitative methods. The likelihood and impact associated with inherent and residual risk shall be determined independently, considering all risk categories (e.g., audit results, threat and vulnerability analysis, and regulatory compliance).
0	The organization, upon termination of individual employment:  a. Disables information system access within [Assignment: organization-defined time period];  b. Terminates/revokes any authenticators/credentials associated with the individual;  c. Conducts exit interviews that include a discussion of [Assignment: organization-defined information security topics];  d. Retrieves all security-related organizational information system-related property;  e. Retains access to organizational information and information systems formerly controlled by terminated individual; and  f. Notifies [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles] within [Assignment: organization-defined time period].	Data and objects containing data shall be assigned a classification by the data owner based on data type, value, sensitivity, and criticality to the organization.
0	• Do any accounts have system-wide privileges for the entire cloud system and, if so, for what operations (read/write/delete)?	The provider shall ensure the integrity of all virtual machine images at all times. Any changes made to virtual machine images must be logged and an alert raised regardless of their running state (e.g., dormant, off, or running). The results of a change or move of an image and the subsequent validation of the image's integrity must be immediately available to customers through electronic methods (e.g., portals or alerts).
1	Ensure that security policies and operational procedures for managing vendor defaults and other security parameters are documented, in use, and known to all affected parties.	External business partners shall adhere to the same policies and procedures for change management, release, and testing as internal developers within the organization (e.g., ITIL service management processes).
1	Utilize centrally managed anti-malware software to continuously monitor and defend each of the organization’s workstations and servers.	Higher levels of assurance are required for protection, retention, and lifecycle management of audit logs, adhering to applicable legal, statutory or regulatory compliance obligations and providing unique user access accountability to detect potentially suspicious network behaviors and/or file integrity anomalies, and to support forensic investigative capabilities in the event of a security breach.
0	The information system separates information flows logically or physically using [Assignment: organization-defined mechanisms and/or techniques] to accomplish [Assignment: organization- defined required separations by types of information].	Data center utilities services and environmental conditions (e.g., water, power, temperature and humidity controls, telecommunications, and internet connectivity) shall be secured, monitored, maintained, and tested for continual effectiveness at planned intervals to ensure protection from unauthorized interception or damage, and designed with automated fail-over or other redundancies in the event of planned or unplanned disruptions.
0	Changes to the organization, business processes, information processing facilities and systems that affect information security shall be controlled.	Authorization must be obtained prior to relocation or transfer of hardware, software, or data to an offsite premises.
1	Manage all network devices using multi-factor authentication and encrypted sessions.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to protect wireless network environments, including the following:  • Perimeter firewalls implemented and configured to restrict unauthorized traffic  • Security settings enabled with strong encryption for authentication and transmission, replacing vendor default settings (e.g., encryption keys, passwords, and SNMP community strings)  • User access to wireless network devices restricted to authorized personnel  • The capability to detect the presence of unauthorized (rogue) wireless network devices for a timely disconnect from the network
1	The organization establishes terms and conditions, consistent with any trust relationships established with other organizations owning, operating, and/or maintaining external information systems, allowing authorized individuals to:  a. Access the information system from external information systems; and  b. Process, store, or transmit organization-controlled information using external information systems.	The identification, assessment, and prioritization of risks posed by business processes requiring third-party access to the organization's information systems and data shall be followed by coordinated application of resources to minimize, monitor, and measure likelihood and impact of unauthorized or inappropriate access. Compensating controls derived from the risk analysis shall be implemented prior to provisioning access.
1	Origination of event	Higher levels of assurance are required for protection, retention, and lifecycle management of audit logs, adhering to applicable legal, statutory or regulatory compliance obligations and providing unique user access accountability to detect potentially suspicious network behaviors and/or file integrity anomalies, and to support forensic investigative capabilities in the event of a security breach.
0	Automatically lock workstation sessions after a standard period of inactivity.	User access shall be authorized and revalidated for entitlement appropriateness, at planned intervals, by the organization's business leadership or other accountable business role or function supported by evidence to demonstrate the organization is adhering to the rule of least privilege based on job function. For identified access violations, remediation must follow established user access policies and procedures.
0	The organization defines, documents, approves, and enforces physical and logical access restrictions associated with changes to the information system.	Password policies, applicable to mobile devices, shall be documented and enforced through technical controls on all company devices or devices approved for BYOD usage, and shall prohibit the changing of password/PIN lengths and authentication requirements.
1	Ensure that anti-virus mechanisms are actively running and cannot be disabled or altered by users, unless specifically authorized by management on a case-by-case basis for a limited time period.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to restrict the installation of unauthorized software on organizationally-owned or managed user end-point devices (e.g., issued workstations, laptops, and mobile devices) and IT infrastructure network and systems components.
0	A policy and supporting security measures shall be implemented to protect information accessed, processed or stored at teleworking sites.	Executive and line management shall take formal action to support information security through clearly-documented direction and commitment, and shall ensure the action has been assigned.
0	The organization:  a. Authorizes connections from the information system to other information systems through the use of Interconnection Security Agreements;  b. Documents, for each interconnection, the interface characteristics, security requirements, and the nature of the information communicated; and  c. Reviews and updates Interconnection Security Agreements [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	All mobile devices permitted for use through the company BYOD program or a company-assigned mobile device shall allow for remote wipe by the company's corporate IT or shall have all company-provided data wiped by the company's corporate IT.
1	When operating platforms are changed, business critical applications shall be reviewed and tested to ensure there is no adverse impact on organizational operations or security.	The BYOD policy shall clarify the systems and servers allowed for use or access on a BYOD-enabled device.
1	Fully document and implement all key- management processes and procedures for cryptographic keys used for encryption of cardholder data, including the following:	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to restrict the installation of unauthorized software on organizationally-owned or managed user end-point devices (e.g., issued workstations, laptops, and mobile devices) and IT infrastructure network and systems components.
0	Detection, prevention and recovery controls to protect against malware shall be implemented, combined with appropriate user awareness.	Business-critical or customer (tenant) impacting (physical and virtual) application and system-system interface (API) designs and configurations, and infrastructure network and systems components, shall be designed, developed, and deployed in accordance with mutually agreed-upon service and capacity-level expectations, as well as IT governance and service management policies and procedures.
1	The organization: a. Identifies, reports, and corrects information system flaws; b. Tests software and firmware updates related to flaw remediation for effectiveness and potential side effects before installation; c. Installs security-relevant software and firmware updates within [Assignment: organization- defined time period] of the release of the updates; and d. Incorporates flaw remediation into the organizational configuration management process. Supplemental Guidance:  Organizations identify information systems affected by announced software flaws including potential vulnerabilities resulting from those flaws, and report this information to designated organizational personnel with information security responsibilities. Security-relevant software updates include, for example, patches, service packs, hot fixes, and anti-virus signatures. Organizations also address flaws discovered during security assessments, continuous monitoring, incident response activities, and system error handling. Organizations take advantage of available resources such as the Common Weakness Enumeration (CWE) or Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVE) databases in remediating flaws discovered in organizational information systems. By incorporating flaw remediation into ongoing configuration management processes, required/anticipated remediation actions can be tracked and verified. Flaw remediation actions that can be tracked and verified include, for example, determining whether organizations follow US-CERT guidance and Information Assurance Vulnerability Alerts. Organization-defined time periods for updating security-relevant software and firmware may vary based on a variety of factors including, for example, the security category of the information system or the criticality of the update (i.e., severity of the vulnerability related to the discovered flaw). Some types of flaw remediation may require more testing than other types. Organizations determine the degree and type of testing needed for the specific type of flaw remediation activity under consideration and also the types of changes that are to be configuration-managed. In some situations, organizations may determine that the testing of software and/or firmware updates is not necessary or practical, for example, when implementing simple anti-virus signature updates. Organizations may also consider in testing decisions, whether security-relevant software or firmware updates are obtained from authorized sources with appropriate digital signatures. Related controls: CA-2, CA-7, CM-3, CM-5, CM-8, MA-2, IR-4, RA-5, SA-10, SA-11, SI-11.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting processes and technical measures implemented, for timely detection of vulnerabilities within organizationally-owned or managed applications, infrastructure network and system components (e.g., network vulnerability assessment, penetration testing) to ensure the efficiency of implemented security controls. A risk-based model for prioritizing remediation of identified vulnerabilities shall be used. Changes shall be managed through a change management process for all vendor-supplied patches, configuration changes, or changes to the organization's internally developed software. Upon request, the provider informs customer (tenant) of policies and procedures and identified weaknesses especially if customer (tenant) data is used as part the service and/or customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of control.
0	When operating platforms are changed, business critical applications shall be reviewed and tested to ensure there is no adverse impact on organizational operations or security.	Platform and data-appropriate encryption (e.g., AES-256) in open/validated formats and standard algorithms shall be required. Keys shall not be stored in the cloud (i.e., at the cloud provider in question), but maintained by the cloud consumer or trusted key management provider. Key management and key usage shall be separated duties.
1	Privacy and protection of personally identifiable information shall be ensured as required in relevant legislation and regulation where applicable.	Data related to electronic commerce (ecommerce) that traverses public networks shall be appropriately classified and protected from fraudulent activity, unauthorized disclosure, or modification in such a manner to prevent contract dispute and compromise of data.
0	Mobile code shall be authorized before its installation and use, and the configuration shall ensure that the authorized mobile code operates according to a clearly defined security policy. All unauthorized mobile code shall be prevented from executing.	Policies and procedures shall be established for managing the risks associated with applying changes to:  • Business-critical or customer (tenant)-impacting (physical and virtual) applications and system-system interface (API) designs and configurations.  • Infrastructure network and systems components. Technical measures shall be implemented to provide assurance that all changes directly correspond to a registered change request, business-critical or customer (tenant), and/or authorization by, the customer (tenant) as per agreement (SLA) prior to deployment.
0	Managers shall regularly review the compliance of information processing and procedures within their area of responsibility with the appropriate security policies, standards and any other security requirements.	Production data shall not be replicated or used in non-production environments. Any use of customer data in non-production environments requires explicit, documented approval from all customers whose data is affected, and must comply with all legal and regulatory requirements for scrubbing of sensitive data elements.
0	Enable command-line audit logging for command shells, such as Microsoft PowerShell and Bash.	Enable command-line audit logging for command shells, such as Microsoft PowerShell and Bash.
0	The information system provides the capability to process audit records for events of interest based on [Assignment: organization-defined audit fields within audit records].	The company shall have a documented application validation process to test for mobile device, operating system, and application compatibility issues.
0	The organization:  a. Conducts an assessment of risk, including the likelihood and magnitude of harm, from the unauthorized access, use, disclosure, disruption, modification, or destruction of the information system and the information it processes, stores, or transmits;  b. Documents risk assessment results in [Selection: security plan; risk assessment report; [Assignment: organization-defined document]];  c. Reviews risk assessment results [Assignment: organization-defined frequency];  d. Disseminates risk assessment results to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]; and  e. Updates the risk assessment [Assignment: organization-defined frequency] or whenever there are significant changes to the information system or environment of operation (including the identification of new threats and vulnerabilities), or other conditions that may impact the security state of the system.	Policies, procedures, and mutually-agreed upon provisions and/or terms shall be established to satisfy customer (tenant) requirements for service-to-service application (API) and information processing interoperability, and portability for application development and information exchange, usage, and integrity persistence.
1	The organization:  a. Develops, documents, and disseminates to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]:    1. A security planning policy that addresses purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment, coordination among organizational entities, and compliance; and    2. Procedures to facilitate the implementation of the security planning policy and associated security planning controls; and  b. Reviews and updates the current:    1. Security planning policy [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and    2. Security planning procedures [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	Policies and procedures shall be established and maintained in support of data security to include (confidentiality, integrity, and availability) across multiple system interfaces, jurisdictions, and business functions to prevent improper disclosure, alteration, or destruction.
1	The information system, for PKI-based authentication:  (a)   Validates certifications by constructing and verifying a certification path to an accepted trust anchor including checking certificate status information;  (b)   Enforces authorized access to the corresponding private key;  (c)   Maps the authenticated identity to the account of the individual or group; and  (d)   Implements a local cache of revocation data to support path discovery and validation in case of inability to access revocation information via the network.	Keys must have identifiable owners (binding keys to identities) and there shall be key management policies.
0	Physically secure all media.	Utility programs capable of potentially overriding system, object, network, virtual machine, and application controls shall be restricted.
0	Ensure that the organization’s anti-malware software updates its scanning engine and signature database on a regular basis.	Roles and responsibilities for performing employment termination or change in employment procedures shall be assigned, documented, and communicated.
1	Information involved in application service transactions shall be protected to prevent incomplete transmission, mis-routing, unauthorized message alteration, unauthorized disclosure, unauthorized message duplication or replay.	Data related to electronic commerce (ecommerce) that traverses public networks shall be appropriately classified and protected from fraudulent activity, unauthorized disclosure, or modification in such a manner to prevent contract dispute and compromise of data.
1	The organization:  a. Separates [Assignment: organization-defined duties of individuals];  b. Documents separation of duties of individuals; and  c. Defines information system access authorizations to support separation of duties.	Providers shall inspect, account for, and work with their cloud supply-chain partners to correct data quality errors and associated risks. Providers shall design and implement controls to mitigate and contain data security risks through proper separation of duties, role-based access, and least-privilege access for all personnel within their supply chain.
0	• Is a software release penetration tested to ensure it does not contain vulnerabilities? If vulnerabilities are discovered, what is the process for remedying these?	Provisioning user access (e.g., employees, contractors, customers (tenants), business partners, and/or supplier relationships) to data and organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) applications, infrastructure systems, and network components shall be authorized by the organization's management prior to access being granted and appropriately restricted as per established policies and procedures. Upon request, provider shall inform customer (tenant) of this user access, especially if customer (tenant) data is used as part the service and/or customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of control.
0	All relevant legislative statutory, regulatory, contractual requirements and the organization's approach to meet these requirements shall be explicitly identified, documented and kept up to date for each information system and the organization.	Data related to electronic commerce (ecommerce) that traverses public networks shall be appropriately classified and protected from fraudulent activity, unauthorized disclosure, or modification in such a manner to prevent contract dispute and compromise of data.
0	Utilize centrally managed anti-malware software to continuously monitor and defend each of the organization’s workstations and servers.	Physical protection against damage from natural causes and disasters, as well as deliberate attacks, including fire, flood, atmospheric electrical discharge, solar induced geomagnetic storm, wind, earthquake, tsunami, explosion, nuclear accident, volcanic activity, biological hazard, civil unrest, mudslide, tectonic activity, and other forms of natural or man-made disaster shall be anticipated, designed, and have countermeasures applied.
1	The organization:  a. Develops, documents, and disseminates to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]:    1. A media protection policy that addresses purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment, coordination among organizational entities, and compliance; and    2. Procedures to facilitate the implementation of the media protection policy and associated media protection controls; and  b. Reviews and updates the current:    1. Media protection policy [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and    2. Media protection procedures [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	Policies and procedures shall be established and maintained in support of data security to include (confidentiality, integrity, and availability) across multiple system interfaces, jurisdictions, and business functions to prevent improper disclosure, alteration, or destruction.
1	The organization employs automated mechanisms to maintain an up-to-date, complete, accurate, and readily available baseline configuration of the information system.	Mobile devices connecting to corporate networks, or storing and accessing company information, shall allow for remote software version/patch validation. All mobile devices shall have the latest available security-related patches installed upon general release by the device manufacturer or carrier and authorized IT personnel shall be able to perform these updates remotely.
1	The organization approves, controls, and monitors information system maintenance tools.	Utility programs capable of potentially overriding system, object, network, virtual machine, and application controls shall be restricted.
0	Apply static and dynamic analysis tools to verify that secure coding practices are being adhered to for internally developed software.	An Information Security Management Program (ISMP) shall be developed, documented, approved, and implemented that includes administrative, technical, and physical safeguards to protect assets and data from loss, misuse, unauthorized access, disclosure, alteration, and destruction. The security program shall include, but not be limited to, the following areas insofar as they relate to the characteristics of the business:  • Risk management  • Security policy  • Organization of information security  • Asset management  • Human resources security  • Physical and environmental security  • Communications and operations management  • Access control  • Information systems acquisition, development, and maintenance
0	Manage all network devices using multi-factor authentication and encrypted sessions.	Mobile devices connecting to corporate networks, or storing and accessing company information, shall allow for remote software version/patch validation. All mobile devices shall have the latest available security-related patches installed upon general release by the device manufacturer or carrier and authorized IT personnel shall be able to perform these updates remotely.
1	Review and test the plan, including all elements listed in Requirement 12.10.1, at least annually.	Business continuity and security incident response plans shall be subject to testing at planned intervals or upon significant organizational or environmental changes. Incident response plans shall involve impacted customers (tenant) and other business relationships that represent critical intra-supply chain business process dependencies.
0	When operating platforms are changed, business critical applications shall be reviewed and tested to ensure there is no adverse impact on organizational operations or security.	Business-critical or customer (tenant) impacting (physical and virtual) application and system-system interface (API) designs and configurations, and infrastructure network and systems components, shall be designed, developed, and deployed in accordance with mutually agreed-upon service and capacity-level expectations, as well as IT governance and service management policies and procedures.
0	The allocation and use of privileged access rights shall be restricted and controlled.	Policies and procedures shall be established and maintained in support of data security to include (confidentiality, integrity, and availability) across multiple system interfaces, jurisdictions, and business functions to prevent improper disclosure, alteration, or destruction.
1	• Is the cloud provider interoperable with third party identity providers?	User access policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for ensuring appropriate identity, entitlement, and access management for all internal corporate and customer (tenant) users with access to data and organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) application interfaces and infrastructure network and systems components. These policies, procedures, processes, and measures must incorporate the following:  • Procedures, supporting roles, and responsibilities for provisioning and de-provisioning user account entitlements following the rule of least privilege based on job function (e.g., internal employee and contingent staff personnel changes, customer-controlled access, suppliers' business relationships, or other third-party business relationships)  • Business case considerations for higher levels of assurance and multi-factor authentication secrets (e.g., management interfaces, key generation, remote access, segregation of duties, emergency access, large-scale provisioning or geographically-distributed deployments, and personnel redundancy for critical systems)  • Access segmentation to sessions and data in multi-tenant architectures by any third party (e.g., provider and/or other customer (tenant))  • Identity trust verification and service-to-service application (API) and information processing interoperability (e.g., SSO and federation)  • Account credential lifecycle management from instantiation through revocation  • Account credential and/or identity store minimization or re-use when feasible  • Authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules for access to data and sessions (e.g., encryption and strong/multi-factor, expireable, non-shared authentication secrets)  • Permissions and supporting capabilities for customer (tenant) controls over authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules for access to data and sessions  • Adherence to applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance requirements
1	An access control policy shall be established, documented and reviewed based on business and information security requirements.	The identification, assessment, and prioritization of risks posed by business processes requiring third-party access to the organization's information systems and data shall be followed by coordinated application of resources to minimize, monitor, and measure likelihood and impact of unauthorized or inappropriate access. Compensating controls derived from the risk analysis shall be implemented prior to provisioning access.
0	The organization correlates information from monitoring tools employed throughout the information system.	The provider shall make security incident information available to all affected customers and providers periodically through electronic methods (e.g., portals).
0	• Where will the data be physically located?	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to ensure the development and/or acquisition of new data, physical or virtual applications, infrastructure network, and systems components, or any corporate, operations and/or data center facilities have been pre-authorized by the organization's business leadership or other accountable business role or function.
1	The organization explicitly authorizes access to [Assignment: organization-defined security functions (deployed in hardware, software, and firmware) and security-relevant information].	Access to all hypervisor management functions or administrative consoles for systems hosting virtualized systems shall be restricted to personnel based upon the principle of least privilege and supported through technical controls (e.g., two-factor authentication, audit trails, IP address filtering, firewalls, and TLS encapsulated communications to the administrative consoles).
0	The organization:  a. Employs a formal sanctions process for individuals failing to comply with established information security policies and procedures; and  b. Notifies [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles] within [Assignment: organization-defined time period] when a formal employee sanctions process is initiated, identifying the individual sanctioned and the reason for the sanction.	Policies and procedures shall be established for the management of cryptographic keys in the service's cryptosystem (e.g., lifecycle management from key generation to revocation and replacement, public key infrastructure, cryptographic protocol design and algorithms used, access controls in place for secure key generation, and exchange and storage including segregation of keys used for encrypted data or sessions). Upon request, provider shall inform the customer (tenant) of changes within the cryptosystem, especially if the customer (tenant) data is used as part of the service, and/or the customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of the control.
1	Managers shall regularly review the compliance of information processing and procedures within their area of responsibility with the appropriate security policies, standards and any other security requirements.	Password policies, applicable to mobile devices, shall be documented and enforced through technical controls on all company devices or devices approved for BYOD usage, and shall prohibit the changing of password/PIN lengths and authentication requirements.
1	The information system implements cryptographic mechanisms to prevent unauthorized disclosure and modification of [Assignment: organization-defined information] on [Assignment: organization-defined information system components].	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for the use of encryption protocols for protection of sensitive data in storage (e.g., file servers, databases, and end-user workstations), data in use (memory), and data in transmission (e.g., system interfaces, over public networks, and electronic messaging) as per applicable legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations.
0	Ensure that there are written incident response plans that define roles of personnel as well as phases of incident handling/management.	Roles and responsibilities of contractors, employees, and third-party users shall be documented as they relate to information assets and security.
1	Utilize a risk-rating process to prioritize the remediation of discovered vulnerabilities.	Implementers shall ensure that the security vulnerability assessment tools or services accommodate the virtualization technologies used (e.g., virtualization aware).
0	Where other authentication mechanisms are used (for example, physical or logical security tokens, smart cards, certificates, etc.), use of these mechanisms must be assigned as follows:  Authentication mechanisms must be assigned to an individual account and not shared among multiple accounts.  Physical and/or logical controls must be in place to ensure only the intended account can use that mechanism to gain access.PCI DSS Requirements	Policies, procedures, and mutually-agreed upon provisions and/or terms shall be established to satisfy customer (tenant) requirements for service-to-service application (API) and information processing interoperability, and portability for application development and information exchange, usage, and integrity persistence.
1	Asset owners shall review users' access rights at regular intervals.	Managers are responsible for maintaining awareness of, and complying with, security policies, procedures, and standards that are relevant to their area of responsibility.
0	• How will the data provided by the customer and the customer’s customers, be collected, processed and transferred?	Data center utilities services and environmental conditions (e.g., water, power, temperature and humidity controls, telecommunications, and internet connectivity) shall be secured, monitored, maintained, and tested for continual effectiveness at planned intervals to ensure protection from unauthorized interception or damage, and designed with automated fail-over or other redundancies in the event of planned or unplanned disruptions.
0	All users shall have a unique identifier (user ID) for their personal use only, and an authentication technique shall be implemented to substantiate the claimed identity of a user.	Business continuity and security incident response plans shall be subject to testing at planned intervals or upon significant organizational or environmental changes. Incident response plans shall involve impacted customers (tenant) and other business relationships that represent critical intra-supply chain business process dependencies.
0	The information system protects the [Selection (one or more): confidentiality; integrity] of [Assignment: organization-defined information at rest].	An Information Security Management Program (ISMP) shall be developed, documented, approved, and implemented that includes administrative, technical, and physical safeguards to protect assets and data from loss, misuse, unauthorized access, disclosure, alteration, and destruction. The security program shall include, but not be limited to, the following areas insofar as they relate to the characteristics of the business:  • Risk management  • Security policy  • Organization of information security  • Asset management  • Human resources security  • Physical and environmental security  • Communications and operations management  • Access control  • Information systems acquisition, development, and maintenance
1	Maintain and implement policies and procedures to manage service providers with whom cardholder data is shared, or that could affect the security of cardholder data, as follows:PCI DSS Requirements	The identification, assessment, and prioritization of risks posed by business processes requiring third-party access to the organization's information systems and data shall be followed by coordinated application of resources to minimize, monitor, and measure likelihood and impact of unauthorized or inappropriate access. Compensating controls derived from the risk analysis shall be implemented prior to provisioning access.
0	The information system protects the [Selection (one or more): confidentiality; integrity] of [Assignment: organization-defined information at rest].	Third-party service providers shall demonstrate compliance with information security and confidentiality, access control, service definitions, and delivery level agreements included in third-party contracts. Third-party reports, records, and services shall undergo audit and review at least annually to govern and maintain compliance with the service delivery agreements.
0	Utilize centrally managed anti-malware software to continuously monitor and defend each of the organization’s workstations and servers.	Policies and procedures shall be established for managing the risks associated with applying changes to:  • Business-critical or customer (tenant)-impacting (physical and virtual) applications and system-system interface (API) designs and configurations.  • Infrastructure network and systems components. Technical measures shall be implemented to provide assurance that all changes directly correspond to a registered change request, business-critical or customer (tenant), and/or authorization by, the customer (tenant) as per agreement (SLA) prior to deployment.
0	The organization provides basic security awareness training to information system users (including managers, senior executives, and contractors):  a. As part of initial training for new users;  b. When required by information system changes; and  c. [Assignment: organization-defined frequency] thereafter.	Higher levels of assurance are required for protection, retention, and lifecycle management of audit logs, adhering to applicable legal, statutory or regulatory compliance obligations and providing unique user access accountability to detect potentially suspicious network behaviors and/or file integrity anomalies, and to support forensic investigative capabilities in the event of a security breach.
1	Utilize centrally managed anti-malware software to continuously monitor and defend each of the organization’s workstations and servers.	The mobile device policy shall require the use of encryption either for the entire device or for data identified as sensitive on all mobile devices, and shall be enforced through technology controls.
0	Users shall be made aware of their responsibilities for maintaining effective access controls and shall be required to follow good security practices in the selection and use of passwords and security of equipment.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for defining and adhering to the retention period of any critical asset as per established policies and procedures, as well as applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance obligations. Backup and recovery measures shall be incorporated as part of business continuity planning and tested accordingly for effectiveness.
0	Visitors are authorized before entering, and escorted at all times within, areas where cardholder data is processed or maintained.	Organizations shall create and maintain a control framework which captures standards, regulatory, legal, and statutory requirements relevant for their business needs. The control framework shall be reviewed at least annually to ensure changes that could affect the business processes are reflected.
0	Require all remote login access to the organization’s network to encrypt data in transit and use multi-factor authentication.	Require all remote login access to the organization’s network to encrypt data in transit and use multi-factor authentication.
1	Limit access to system components and cardholder data to only those individuals whose job requires such access.	Policies and procedures shall be established and maintained in support of data security to include (confidentiality, integrity, and availability) across multiple system interfaces, jurisdictions, and business functions to prevent improper disclosure, alteration, or destruction.
1	• Request information on how multi-tenanted applications are isolated from each other – a high level description of containment and isolation measures is required.	Multi-tenant organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) applications, and infrastructure system and network components, shall be designed, developed, deployed, and configured such that provider and customer (tenant) user access is appropriately segmented from other tenant users, based on the following considerations:  • Established policies and procedures  • Isolation of business critical assets and/or sensitive user data, and sessions that mandate stronger internal controls and high levels of assurance  • Compliance with legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations
1	The organization:  a. Develops, documents, and disseminates to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]:    1. A media protection policy that addresses purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment, coordination among organizational entities, and compliance; and    2. Procedures to facilitate the implementation of the media protection policy and associated media protection controls; and  b. Reviews and updates the current:    1. Media protection policy [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and    2. Media protection procedures [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	The organization's business leadership (or other accountable business role or function) shall review the information security policy at planned intervals or as a result of changes to the organization to ensure its continuing alignment with the security strategy, effectiveness, accuracy, relevance, and applicability to legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance obligations.
1	Use Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) logging on all DHCP servers or IP address management tools to update the organization’s hardware asset inventory.	An inventory of all mobile devices used to store and access company data shall be kept and maintained. All changes to the status of these devices (i.e., operating system and patch levels, lost or decommissioned status, and to whom the device is assigned or approved for usage (BYOD)) will be included for each device in the inventory.
0	Create the incident response plan to be implemented in the event of system breach. Ensure the plan addresses the following, at a minimum:  Roles, responsibilities, and communication and contact strategies in the event of a compromise including notification of the payment brands, at a minimum  Specific incident response procedures  Business recovery and continuity procedures  Data backup processes  Analysis of legal requirements for reporting compromises  Coverage and responses of all critical system components  Reference or inclusion of incident response procedures from the payment brands.	Providers shall inspect, account for, and work with their cloud supply-chain partners to correct data quality errors and associated risks. Providers shall design and implement controls to mitigate and contain data security risks through proper separation of duties, role-based access, and least-privilege access for all personnel within their supply chain.
1	Shred, incinerate, or pulp hard- copy materials so that cardholder data cannot be reconstructed. Secure storage containers used for materials that are to be destroyed.	Policies and procedures shall be established for the secure disposal of equipment (by asset type) used outside the organization's premises. This shall include a wiping solution or destruction process that renders recovery of information impossible. The erasure shall consist of a full overwrite of the drive to ensure that the erased drive is released to inventory for reuse and deployment, or securely stored until it can be destroyed.
0	The organization employs automated mechanisms to integrate audit review, analysis, and reporting processes to support organizational processes for investigation and response to suspicious activities.	All structured and unstructured data shall be available to the customer and provided to them upon request in an industry-standard format (e.g., .doc, .xls, .pdf, logs, and flat files).
1	User identification	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to restrict the installation of unauthorized software on organizationally-owned or managed user end-point devices (e.g., issued workstations, laptops, and mobile devices) and IT infrastructure network and systems components.
1	Access to all audit trails	Higher levels of assurance are required for protection, retention, and lifecycle management of audit logs, adhering to applicable legal, statutory or regulatory compliance obligations and providing unique user access accountability to detect potentially suspicious network behaviors and/or file integrity anomalies, and to support forensic investigative capabilities in the event of a security breach.
0	Procedures for handling assets shall be developed and implemented in accordance with the information classification scheme adopted by the organization.	A formal disciplinary or sanction policy shall be established for employees who have violated security policies and procedures. Employees shall be made aware of what action might be taken in the event of a violation, and disciplinary measures must be stated in the policies and procedures.
1	Procedures for handling assets shall be developed and implemented in accordance with the information classification scheme adopted by the organization.	Policies and procedures shall be established for the labeling, handling, and security of data and objects which contain data. Mechanisms for label inheritance shall be implemented for objects that act as aggregate containers for data.
1	• How much can you scale up? Does the provider offer guarantees on maximum available resources within a minimum period?	The availability, quality, and adequate capacity and resources shall be planned, prepared, and measured to deliver the required system performance in accordance with legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations. Projections of future capacity requirements shall be made to mitigate the risk of system overload.
0	The organization employs automated mechanisms to maintain an up-to-date, complete, accurate, and readily available baseline configuration of the information system.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to prevent the execution of unauthorized mobile code, defined as software transferred between systems over a trusted or untrusted network and executed on a local system without explicit installation or execution by the recipient, on organizationally-owned or managed user end-point devices (e.g., issued workstations, laptops, and mobile devices) and IT infrastructure network and systems components.
0	All individual user accesses to cardholder data	Mobile devices connecting to corporate networks, or storing and accessing company information, shall allow for remote software version/patch validation. All mobile devices shall have the latest available security-related patches installed upon general release by the device manufacturer or carrier and authorized IT personnel shall be able to perform these updates remotely.
1	Information systems shall be regularly reviewed for compliance with the organization's information security policies and standards.	An inventory of all mobile devices used to store and access company data shall be kept and maintained. All changes to the status of these devices (i.e., operating system and patch levels, lost or decommissioned status, and to whom the device is assigned or approved for usage (BYOD)) will be included for each device in the inventory.
1	The information security related requirements shall be included in the requirements for new information systems or enhancements to existing information systems.	Baseline security requirements shall be established for developed or acquired, organizationally-owned or managed, physical or virtual, applications and infrastructure system and network components that comply with applicable legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations. Deviations from standard baseline configurations must be authorized following change management policies and procedures prior to deployment, provisioning, or use. Compliance with security baseline requirements must be reassessed at least annually unless an alternate frequency has been established and authorized based on business needs.
0	Disable peer-to-peer (ad hoc) wireless network capabilities on wireless clients.	External business partners shall adhere to the same policies and procedures for change management, release, and testing as internal developers within the organization (e.g., ITIL service management processes).
0	Organizations shall develop and maintain a risk management program to manage risk to an acceptable level.	Protection measures shall be put into place to react to natural and man-made threats based upon a geographically-specific business impact assessment.
1	The organization establishes terms and conditions, consistent with any trust relationships established with other organizations owning, operating, and/or maintaining external information systems, allowing authorized individuals to:  a. Access the information system from external information systems; and  b. Process, store, or transmit organization-controlled information using external information systems.	The BYOD policy shall clarify the systems and servers allowed for use or access on a BYOD-enabled device.
0	When operating platforms are changed, business critical applications shall be reviewed and tested to ensure there is no adverse impact on organizational operations or security.	All data shall be designated with stewardship, with assigned responsibilities defined, documented, and communicated.
1	Maintain an up-to-date list of devices. The list should include the following:  Make, model of device  Location of device (for example, the address of the site or facility where the device is located)  Device serial number or other method of unique identification.PCI DSS Requirements	To reduce the risks from environmental threats, hazards, and opportunities for unauthorized access, equipment shall be kept away from locations subject to high probability environmental risks and supplemented by redundant equipment located at a reasonable distance.
0	The information system implements nonsignature-based malicious code detection mechanisms.	The information system implements nonsignature-based malicious code detection mechanisms.
1	All access rights shall be regularly reviewed by management via a formal documented process.	User access shall be authorized and revalidated for entitlement appropriateness, at planned intervals, by the organization's business leadership or other accountable business role or function supported by evidence to demonstrate the organization is adhering to the rule of least privilege based on job function. For identified access violations, remediation must follow established user access policies and procedures.
0	For wireless environments connected to the cardholder data environment or transmitting cardholder data, change ALL wireless vendor defaults at installation, including but not limited to default wireless encryption keys, passwords, and SNMP community strings.	All mobile devices permitted for use through the company BYOD program or a company-assigned mobile device shall allow for remote wipe by the company's corporate IT or shall have all company-provided data wiped by the company's corporate IT.
0	The organization requires the developer of the information system, system component, or information system service to employ dynamic code analysis tools to identify common flaws and document the results of the analysis.	The organization requires the developer of the information system, system component, or information system service to employ dynamic code analysis tools to identify common flaws and document the results of the analysis.
0	Implement physical and/or logical controls to restrict access to publicly accessible network jacks.	Higher levels of assurance are required for protection, retention, and lifecycle management of audit logs, adhering to applicable legal, statutory or regulatory compliance obligations and providing unique user access accountability to detect potentially suspicious network behaviors and/or file integrity anomalies, and to support forensic investigative capabilities in the event of a security breach.
1	Designate specific personnel to be available on a 24/7 basis to respond to alerts.	Points of contact for applicable regulation authorities, national and local law enforcement, and other legal jurisdictional authorities shall be maintained and regularly updated (e.g., change in impacted-scope and/or a change in any compliance obligation) to ensure direct compliance liaisons have been established and to be prepared for a forensic investigation requiring rapid engagement with law enforcement.
0	Ensure that security policies and operational procedures for protecting stored cardholder data are documented, in use, and known to all affected parties.	The provider shall have a documented mobile device policy that includes a documented definition for mobile devices and the acceptable usage and requirements for all mobile devices. The provider shall post and communicate the policy and requirements through the company's security awareness and training program.
0	Ensure that all anti-virus mechanisms are maintained as follows:  Are kept current,  Perform periodic scans  Generate audit logs which are retained per PCI DSS Requirement 10.7.PCI DSS Requirements	Organizations shall follow a defined quality change control and testing process (e.g., ITIL Service Management) with established baselines, testing, and release standards that focus on system availability, confidentiality, and integrity of systems and services.
1	Formal exchange policies, procedures, and controls shall be in place to protect the exchange of information through the use of all types of communication mediums.	The provider shall use an industry-recognized virtualization platform and standard virtualization formats (e.g., OVF) to help ensure interoperability, and shall have documented custom changes made to any hypervisor in use and all solution-specific virtualization hooks available for customer review.
0	Routing controls shall be implemented for networks to ensure that computer connections and information flows do not breach the access control policy of the business applications.	Routing controls shall be implemented for networks to ensure that computer connections and information flows do not breach the access control policy of the business applications.
0	Ensure that security policies and operational procedures for security monitoring and testing are documented, in use, and known to all affected parties.	Prior to granting customers access to data, assets, and information systems, identified security, contractual, and regulatory requirements for customer access shall be addressed.
0	Review custom code prior to release to production or customers in order to identify any potential coding vulnerability (using either manual or automated processes) to include at least the following:  Code changes are reviewed by individuals other than the originating code author, and by individuals knowledgeable about code-review techniques and secure coding practices.  Code reviews ensure code is developed according to secure coding guidelines  Appropriate corrections are implemented prior to release.  Code-review results are reviewed and approved by management prior to release.(Continued on next page)PCI DSS Requirements	Policies and procedures are established for permissible storage and access of identities used for authentication to ensure identities are only accessible based on rules of least privilege and replication limitation only to users explicitly defined as business necessary.
1	• Are all utilities (electricity, water, etc) capable of supporting your environment? o How often is this re-evaluated and tested? 	Data center utilities services and environmental conditions (e.g., water, power, temperature and humidity controls, telecommunications, and internet connectivity) shall be secured, monitored, maintained, and tested for continual effectiveness at planned intervals to ensure protection from unauthorized interception or damage, and designed with automated fail-over or other redundancies in the event of planned or unplanned disruptions.
1	Review custom code prior to release to production or customers in order to identify any potential coding vulnerability (using either manual or automated processes) to include at least the following:  Code changes are reviewed by individuals other than the originating code author, and by individuals knowledgeable about code-review techniques and secure coding practices.  Code reviews ensure code is developed according to secure coding guidelines  Appropriate corrections are implemented prior to release.  Code-review results are reviewed and approved by management prior to release.(Continued on next page)PCI DSS Requirements	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting processes and technical measures implemented, for timely detection of vulnerabilities within organizationally-owned or managed applications, infrastructure network and system components (e.g., network vulnerability assessment, penetration testing) to ensure the efficiency of implemented security controls. A risk-based model for prioritizing remediation of identified vulnerabilities shall be used. Changes shall be managed through a change management process for all vendor-supplied patches, configuration changes, or changes to the organization's internally developed software. Upon request, the provider informs customer (tenant) of policies and procedures and identified weaknesses especially if customer (tenant) data is used as part the service and/or customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of control.
0	Configure system security parameters to prevent misuse.	Policies and procedures shall be implemented to ensure the consistent review of service agreements (e.g., SLAs) between providers and customers (tenants) across the relevant supply chain (upstream/downstream). Reviews shall be performed at least annually and identify any non-conformance to established agreements. The reviews should result in actions to address service-level conflicts or inconsistencies resulting from disparate supplier relationships.
1	o What dependencies relevant to the restoration process exist? Include suppliers and outsource partners.	A consistent unified framework for business continuity planning and plan development shall be established, documented, and adopted to ensure all business continuity plans are consistent in addressing priorities for testing, maintenance, and information security requirements.  Requirements for business continuity plans include the following:  • Defined purpose and scope, aligned with relevant dependencies  • Accessible to and understood by those who will use them  • Owned by a named person(s) who is responsible for their review, update, and approval  • Defined lines of communication, roles, and responsibilities  • Detailed recovery procedures, manual work-around, and reference information  • Method for plan invocation
0	The organization:  a. Develops, documents, and disseminates to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]:    1. A contingency planning policy that addresses purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment, coordination among organizational entities, and compliance; and    2. Procedures to facilitate the implementation of the contingency planning policy and associated contingency planning controls; and  b. Reviews and updates the current:    1. Contingency planning policy [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and    2. Contingency planning procedures [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	Policies and procedures are established for permissible storage and access of identities used for authentication to ensure identities are only accessible based on rules of least privilege and replication limitation only to users explicitly defined as business necessary.
0	Conduct regular external and internal penetration tests to identify vulnerabilities and attack vectors that can be used to exploit enterprise systems successfully.	The mobile device policy shall require the use of encryption either for the entire device or for data identified as sensitive on all mobile devices, and shall be enforced through technology controls.
1	• Are any SLA provisions guaranteed by outsourcers lower than the SLAs you offer to your customers? If not, do you have supplier redundancy in place?	Policies and procedures shall be implemented to ensure the consistent review of service agreements (e.g., SLAs) between providers and customers (tenants) across the relevant supply chain (upstream/downstream). Reviews shall be performed at least annually and identify any non-conformance to established agreements. The reviews should result in actions to address service-level conflicts or inconsistencies resulting from disparate supplier relationships.
0	The organization employs the principle of least privilege, allowing only authorized accesses for users (or processes acting on behalf of users) which are necessary to accomplish assigned tasks in accordance with organizational missions and business functions.	Anti-malware awareness training, specific to mobile devices, shall be included in the provider's information security awareness training.
0	The organization establishes terms and conditions, consistent with any trust relationships established with other organizations owning, operating, and/or maintaining external information systems, allowing authorized individuals to:  a. Access the information system from external information systems; and  b. Process, store, or transmit organization-controlled information using external information systems.	Automated equipment identification shall be used as a method of connection authentication. Location-aware technologies may be used to validate connection authentication integrity based on known equipment location.
0	Encrypt all sensitive information at rest using a tool that requires a secondary authentication mechanism not integrated into the operating system, in order to access the information.	A security awareness training program shall be established for all contractors, third-party users, and employees of the organization and mandated when appropriate. All individuals with access to organizational data shall receive appropriate awareness training and regular updates in organizational procedures, processes, and policies relating to their professional function relative to the organization.
0	The organization: a. Implements an incident handling capability for security incidents that includes preparation, detection and analysis, containment, eradication, and recovery; b. Coordinates incident handling activities with contingency planning activities; and c. Incorporates lessons learned from ongoing incident handling activities into incident response procedures, training, and testing/exercises, and implements the resulting changes accordingly.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for defining and adhering to the retention period of any critical asset as per established policies and procedures, as well as applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance obligations. Backup and recovery measures shall be incorporated as part of business continuity planning and tested accordingly for effectiveness.
0	Limit access to system components and cardholder data to only those individuals whose job requires such access.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting processes and technical measures implemented, for timely detection of vulnerabilities within organizationally-owned or managed applications, infrastructure network and system components (e.g., network vulnerability assessment, penetration testing) to ensure the efficiency of implemented security controls. A risk-based model for prioritizing remediation of identified vulnerabilities shall be used. Changes shall be managed through a change management process for all vendor-supplied patches, configuration changes, or changes to the organization's internally developed software. Upon request, the provider informs customer (tenant) of policies and procedures and identified weaknesses especially if customer (tenant) data is used as part the service and/or customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of control.
0	The organization permits authorized individuals to use an external information system to access the information system or to process, store, or transmit organization-controlled information only when the organization:  (a)   Verifies the implementation of required security controls on the external system as specified in the organization’s information security policy and security plan; or  (b)   Retains approved information system connection or processing agreements with the organizational entity hosting the external information system.	Information security policies and procedures shall be established and made readily available for review by all impacted personnel and external business relationships. Information security policies must be authorized by the organization's business leadership (or other accountable business role or function) and supported by a strategic business plan and an information security management program inclusive of defined information security roles and responsibilities for business leadership.
1	A formal policy shall be in place, and appropriate security measures shall be adopted to protect against the risks of using mobile computing and communication devices.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to manage business risks associated with permitting mobile device access to corporate resources and may require the implementation of higher assurance compensating controls and acceptable-use policies and procedures (e.g., mandated security training, stronger identity, entitlement and access controls, and device monitoring).
0	• Can the provider confirm that the virtualised image does not contain the authentication credentials?	Information security policies and procedures shall be established and made readily available for review by all impacted personnel and external business relationships. Information security policies must be authorized by the organization's business leadership (or other accountable business role or function) and supported by a strategic business plan and an information security management program inclusive of defined information security roles and responsibilities for business leadership.
1	Ensure that security policies and operational procedures for restricting access to cardholder data are documented, in use, and known to all affected parties.	Access to the organization's own developed applications, program, or object source code, or any other form of intellectual property (IP), and use of proprietary software shall be appropriately restricted following the rule of least privilege based on job function as per established user access policies and procedures.
1	• Can you ensure that the patch management process covers all layers of the cloud delivery technologies – i.e., network (infrastructure components, routers and switches, etc), server operating systems, virtualisation software, applications and security subsystems (firewalls, antivirus gateways, intrusion detection systems, etc)?	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting processes and technical measures implemented, for timely detection of vulnerabilities within organizationally-owned or managed applications, infrastructure network and system components (e.g., network vulnerability assessment, penetration testing) to ensure the efficiency of implemented security controls. A risk-based model for prioritizing remediation of identified vulnerabilities shall be used. Changes shall be managed through a change management process for all vendor-supplied patches, configuration changes, or changes to the organization's internally developed software. Upon request, the provider informs customer (tenant) of policies and procedures and identified weaknesses especially if customer (tenant) data is used as part the service and/or customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of control.
0	Encrypt or hash with a salt all authentication credentials when stored.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to inventory, document, and maintain data flows for data that is resident (permanently or temporarily) within the service's geographically distributed (physical and virtual) applications and infrastructure network and systems components and/or shared with other third parties to ascertain any regulatory, statutory, or supply chain agreement (SLA) compliance impact, and to address any other business risks associated with the data. Upon request, provider shall inform customer (tenant) of compliance impact and risk, especially if customer data is used as part of the services.
1	For wireless environments connected to the cardholder data environment or transmitting cardholder data, change ALL wireless vendor defaults at installation, including but not limited to default wireless encryption keys, passwords, and SNMP community strings.	Multi-tenant organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) applications, and infrastructure system and network components, shall be designed, developed, deployed, and configured such that provider and customer (tenant) user access is appropriately segmented from other tenant users, based on the following considerations:  • Established policies and procedures  • Isolation of business critical assets and/or sensitive user data, and sessions that mandate stronger internal controls and high levels of assurance  • Compliance with legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations
0	Visitors are authorized before entering, and escorted at all times within, areas where cardholder data is processed or maintained.	All cloud-based services used by the company's mobile devices or BYOD shall be pre-approved for usage and the storage of company business data.
0	The information system accepts only FICAM-approved third-party credentials.	The information system accepts only FICAM-approved third-party credentials.
1	When operating platforms are changed, business critical applications shall be reviewed and tested to ensure there is no adverse impact on organizational operations or security.	Policies, procedures, and mutually-agreed upon provisions and/or terms shall be established to satisfy customer (tenant) requirements for service-to-service application (API) and information processing interoperability, and portability for application development and information exchange, usage, and integrity persistence.
0	The organization requires the developer of the information system, system component, or information system service to perform threat and vulnerability analyses and subsequent testing/evaluation of the as-built system, component, or service.	Supply chain agreements (e.g., SLAs) between providers and customers (tenants) shall incorporate at least the following mutually-agreed upon provisions and/or terms:  • Scope of business relationship and services offered (e.g., customer (tenant) data acquisition, exchange and usage, feature sets and functionality, personnel and infrastructure network and systems components for service delivery and support, roles and responsibilities of provider and customer (tenant) and any subcontracted or outsourced business relationships, physical geographical location of hosted services, and any known regulatory compliance considerations)  • Information security requirements, provider and customer (tenant) primary points of contact for the duration of the business relationship, and references to detailed supporting and relevant business processes and technical measures implemented to enable effectively governance, risk management, assurance and legal, statutory and regulatory compliance obligations by all impacted business relationships  • Notification and/or pre-authorization of any changes controlled by the provider with customer (tenant) impacts  • Timely notification of a security incident (or confirmed breach) to all customers (tenants) and other business relationships impacted (i.e., up- and down-stream impacted supply chain)  • Assessment and independent verification of compliance with agreement provisions and/or terms (e.g., industry-acceptable certification, attestation audit report, or equivalent forms of assurance) without posing an unacceptable business risk of exposure to the organization being assessed  • Expiration of the business relationship and treatment of customer (tenant) data impacted  • Customer (tenant) service-to-service application (API) and data interoperability and portability requirements for application development and information exchange, usage, and integrity persistence
1	The organization employs automated mechanisms to centrally manage, apply, and verify configuration settings for [Assignment: organization-defined information system components].	Utility programs capable of potentially overriding system, object, network, virtual machine, and application controls shall be restricted.
1	Assign access based on individual personnel’s job classification and function.	Policies and procedures are established for permissible storage and access of identities used for authentication to ensure identities are only accessible based on rules of least privilege and replication limitation only to users explicitly defined as business necessary.
0	Develop usage policies for critical technologies and define proper use of these technologies.	The organization's business leadership (or other accountable business role or function) shall review the information security policy at planned intervals or as a result of changes to the organization to ensure its continuing alignment with the security strategy, effectiveness, accuracy, relevance, and applicability to legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance obligations.
1	Type of event	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to restrict the installation of unauthorized software on organizationally-owned or managed user end-point devices (e.g., issued workstations, laptops, and mobile devices) and IT infrastructure network and systems components.
0	Disable peer-to-peer (ad hoc) wireless network capabilities on wireless clients.	Independent reviews and assessments shall be performed at least annually to ensure that the organization addresses nonconformities of established policies, standards, procedures, and compliance obligations.
0	Compare all network device configuration against approved security configurations defined for each network device in use and alert when any deviations are discovered.	Internal corporate or customer (tenant) user account credentials shall be restricted as per the following, ensuring appropriate identity, entitlement, and access management and in accordance with established policies and procedures:  • Identity trust verification and service-to-service application (API) and information processing interoperability (e.g., SSO and Federation)  • Account credential lifecycle management from instantiation through revocation  • Account credential and/or identity store minimization or re-use when feasible  • Adherence to industry acceptable and/or regulatory compliant authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules (e.g., strong/multi-factor, expireable, non-shared authentication secrets)
1	• Detail your change control procedure and policy. This should also include the process used to re-assess risks as a result of changes and clarify whether the outputs are available to end customers.	Risk assessment results shall include updates to security policies, procedures, standards, and controls to ensure that they remain relevant and effective.
0	Limit access to system components and cardholder data to only those individuals whose job requires such access.	The BYOD policy and supporting awareness training clearly states the approved applications, application stores, and application extensions and plugins that may be used for BYOD usage.
1	• What assurance can the PaaS provider give that access to your data is restricted to your enterprise users and to the applications you own?	Multi-tenant organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) applications, and infrastructure system and network components, shall be designed, developed, deployed, and configured such that provider and customer (tenant) user access is appropriately segmented from other tenant users, based on the following considerations:  • Established policies and procedures  • Isolation of business critical assets and/or sensitive user data, and sessions that mandate stronger internal controls and high levels of assurance  • Compliance with legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations
0	The information system protects the [Selection (one or more): confidentiality; integrity] of transmitted information.	Assets must be classified in terms of business criticality, service-level expectations, and operational continuity requirements. A complete inventory of business-critical assets located at all sites and/or geographical locations and their usage over time shall be maintained and updated regularly, and assigned ownership by defined roles and responsibilities.
1	Information systems shall be regularly reviewed for compliance with the organization's information security policies and standards.	A documented list of approved application stores has been defined as acceptable for mobile devices accessing or storing provider managed data.
0	• Can the provider detail what information is recorded within audit logs? o For what period is this data retained? o Is it possible to segment data within audit logs so they can be made available to the end customer and/or law enforcement without compromising other customers and still be admissible in court? o What controls are employed to protect logs from unauthorised access or tampering? o What method is used to check and protect the integrity of audit logs? 	Policies and procedures shall be implemented to ensure the consistent review of service agreements (e.g., SLAs) between providers and customers (tenants) across the relevant supply chain (upstream/downstream). Reviews shall be performed at least annually and identify any non-conformance to established agreements. The reviews should result in actions to address service-level conflicts or inconsistencies resulting from disparate supplier relationships.
1	Networks shall be managed and controlled in order to protect the organization from threats and to maintain security for the systems and applications using the network, including information in transit.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to protect wireless network environments, including the following:  • Perimeter firewalls implemented and configured to restrict unauthorized traffic  • Security settings enabled with strong encryption for authentication and transmission, replacing vendor default settings (e.g., encryption keys, passwords, and SNMP community strings)  • User access to wireless network devices restricted to authorized personnel  • The capability to detect the presence of unauthorized (rogue) wireless network devices for a timely disconnect from the network
1	When operating platforms are changed, business critical applications shall be reviewed and tested to ensure there is no adverse impact on organizational operations or security.	Changes to mobile device operating systems, patch levels, and/or applications shall be managed through the company's change management processes.
1	Review logs of all other system components periodically based on the organization’s policies and risk management strategy, as determined by the organization’s annual risk assessment.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to restrict the installation of unauthorized software on organizationally-owned or managed user end-point devices (e.g., issued workstations, laptops, and mobile devices) and IT infrastructure network and systems components.
0	The organization:  a. Develops, documents, and disseminates to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]:    1. An identification and authentication policy that addresses purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment, coordination among organizational entities, and compliance; and    2. Procedures to facilitate the implementation of the identification and authentication policy and associated identification and authentication controls; and  b. Reviews and updates the current:    1. Identification and authentication policy [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and    2. Identification and authentication procedures [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	A documented list of approved application stores has been defined as acceptable for mobile devices accessing or storing provider managed data.
0	Managers shall regularly review the compliance of information processing and procedures within their area of responsibility with the appropriate security policies, standards and any other security requirements.	Policies and procedures shall be established for the labeling, handling, and security of data and objects which contain data. Mechanisms for label inheritance shall be implemented for objects that act as aggregate containers for data.
0	Requirements for confidentiality or non-disclosure agreements reflecting the organization's needs for the protection of information shall be identified, regularly reviewed and documented.	Internal corporate or customer (tenant) user account credentials shall be restricted as per the following, ensuring appropriate identity, entitlement, and access management and in accordance with established policies and procedures:  • Identity trust verification and service-to-service application (API) and information processing interoperability (e.g., SSO and Federation)  • Account credential lifecycle management from instantiation through revocation  • Account credential and/or identity store minimization or re-use when feasible  • Adherence to industry acceptable and/or regulatory compliant authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules (e.g., strong/multi-factor, expireable, non-shared authentication secrets)
0	o How are the detection capabilities structured? o How can the cloud customer report anomalies and security events to the provider? o What facilities does the provider allow for customer-selected third party RTSM services to intervene in their systems (where appropriate) or to co-ordinate incident response capabilities with the cloud provider?         o Is there a real time security monitoring (RTSM) service in place? Is the service outsourced? What kind of parameters and services are monitored? o Do you provide (upon request) a periodical report on security incidents (eg,. according to the ITIL definition)? o For how long are the security logs retained? Are those logs securely stored? Who has access to the logs? o Is it possible for the customer to build a HIPS/HIDS in the virtual machine image? Is it possible to integrate the information collected by the intrusion detection and prevention systems of the customer into the RTSM service of the cloud provider or that of a third party? 	Policies and procedures are established for permissible storage and access of identities used for authentication to ensure identities are only accessible based on rules of least privilege and replication limitation only to users explicitly defined as business necessary.
0	Use appropriate facility entry controls to limit and monitor physical access to systems in the cardholder data environment.	User access to diagnostic and configuration ports shall be restricted to authorized individuals and applications.
0	The information system protects the authenticity of communications sessions.	The information system protects the authenticity of communications sessions.
0	The information system protects against or limits the effects of the following types of denial of service attacks: [Assignment: organization-defined types of denial of service attacks or reference to source for such information] by employing [Assignment: organization-defined security safeguards].	The provider shall make security incident information available to all affected customers and providers periodically through electronic methods (e.g., portals).
0	A policy on the use of cryptographic controls for protection of information shall be developed and implemented, and supported by formal procedures.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to restrict the installation of unauthorized software on organizationally-owned or managed user end-point devices (e.g., issued workstations, laptops, and mobile devices) and IT infrastructure network and systems components.
0	Data input to applications and databases shall be validated to ensure that this data is correct and appropriate.	Authorization must be obtained prior to relocation or transfer of hardware, software, or data to an offsite premises.
0	Ensure that unauthorized assets are either removed from the network, quarantined or the inventory is updated in a timely manner.	Data input and output integrity routines (i.e., reconciliation and edit checks) shall be implemented for application interfaces and databases to prevent manual or systematic processing errors, corruption of data, or misuse.
1	• Can the client perform their own data extraction to verify that the format is universal and is capable of being migrated to another cloud provider?	Policies, procedures, and mutually-agreed upon provisions and/or terms shall be established to satisfy customer (tenant) requirements for service-to-service application (API) and information processing interoperability, and portability for application development and information exchange, usage, and integrity persistence.
1	The organization:  a. Determines the types of changes to the information system that are configuration-controlled;  b. Reviews proposed configuration-controlled changes to the information system and approves or disapproves such changes with explicit consideration for security impact analyses;  c. Documents configuration change decisions associated with the information system;  d. Implements approved configuration-controlled changes to the information system;  e. Retains records of configuration-controlled changes to the information system for [Assignment: organization-defined time period];  f. Audits and reviews activities associated with configuration-controlled changes to the information system; and  g. Coordinates and provides oversight for configuration change control activities through [Assignment: organization-defined configuration change control element (e.g., committee, board] that convenes [Selection (one or more): [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; [Assignment: organization-defined configuration change conditions]].	The mobile device policy shall prohibit the circumvention of built-in security controls on mobile devices (e.g., jailbreaking or rooting) and shall enforce the prohibition through detective and preventative controls on the device or through a centralized device management system (e.g., mobile device management).
0	Information security events shall be reported through appropriate communications channels as quickly as possible. All employees, contractors and third-party users shall be made aware of their responsibility to report any information security events as quickly as possible.	Aligned with the enterprise-wide framework, formal risk assessments shall be performed at least annually or at planned intervals, (and in conjunction with any changes to information systems) to determine the likelihood and impact of all identified risks using qualitative and quantitative methods. The likelihood and impact associated with inherent and residual risk shall be determined independently, considering all risk categories (e.g., audit results, threat and vulnerability analysis, and regulatory compliance).
0	Managers shall regularly review the compliance of information processing and procedures within their area of responsibility with the appropriate security policies, standards and any other security requirements.	Timely de-provisioning (revocation or modification) of user access to data and organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) applications, infrastructure systems, and network components, shall be implemented as per established policies and procedures and based on user's change in status (e.g., termination of employment or other business relationship, job change, or transfer). Upon request, provider shall inform customer (tenant) of these changes, especially if customer (tenant) data is used as part the service and/or customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of control.
1	The information system implements multifactor authentication for network access to privileged accounts.	User access policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for ensuring appropriate identity, entitlement, and access management for all internal corporate and customer (tenant) users with access to data and organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) application interfaces and infrastructure network and systems components. These policies, procedures, processes, and measures must incorporate the following:  • Procedures, supporting roles, and responsibilities for provisioning and de-provisioning user account entitlements following the rule of least privilege based on job function (e.g., internal employee and contingent staff personnel changes, customer-controlled access, suppliers' business relationships, or other third-party business relationships)  • Business case considerations for higher levels of assurance and multi-factor authentication secrets (e.g., management interfaces, key generation, remote access, segregation of duties, emergency access, large-scale provisioning or geographically-distributed deployments, and personnel redundancy for critical systems)  • Access segmentation to sessions and data in multi-tenant architectures by any third party (e.g., provider and/or other customer (tenant))  • Identity trust verification and service-to-service application (API) and information processing interoperability (e.g., SSO and federation)  • Account credential lifecycle management from instantiation through revocation  • Account credential and/or identity store minimization or re-use when feasible  • Authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules for access to data and sessions (e.g., encryption and strong/multi-factor, expireable, non-shared authentication secrets)  • Permissions and supporting capabilities for customer (tenant) controls over authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules for access to data and sessions  • Adherence to applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance requirements
0	The allocation and use of privileged access rights shall be restricted and controlled.	The BYOD policy includes clarifying language for the expectation of privacy, requirements for litigation, e-discovery, and legal holds. The BYOD policy shall clearly state the expectations regarding the loss of non-company data in the case that a wipe of the device is required.
1	The organization:  a. Reviews and analyzes information system audit records [Assignment: organization-defined frequency] for indications of [Assignment: organization-defined inappropriate or unusual activity]; and  b. Reports findings to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles].	User access shall be authorized and revalidated for entitlement appropriateness, at planned intervals, by the organization's business leadership or other accountable business role or function supported by evidence to demonstrate the organization is adhering to the rule of least privilege based on job function. For identified access violations, remediation must follow established user access policies and procedures.
1	Power and telecommunications cabling carrying data or supporting information services shall be protected from interception or damage.	Physical access to information assets and functions by users and support personnel shall be restricted.
0	The organization:  a. Establishes usage restrictions, configuration/connection requirements, and implementation guidance for wireless access; and  b. Authorizes wireless access to the information system prior to allowing such connections.	Policies and procedures shall be established for the management of cryptographic keys in the service's cryptosystem (e.g., lifecycle management from key generation to revocation and replacement, public key infrastructure, cryptographic protocol design and algorithms used, access controls in place for secure key generation, and exchange and storage including segregation of keys used for encrypted data or sessions). Upon request, provider shall inform the customer (tenant) of changes within the cryptosystem, especially if the customer (tenant) data is used as part of the service, and/or the customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of the control.
1	The organization employs an automatic fire suppression capability for the information system when the facility is not staffed on a continuous basis. 	Physical protection against damage from natural causes and disasters, as well as deliberate attacks, including fire, flood, atmospheric electrical discharge, solar induced geomagnetic storm, wind, earthquake, tsunami, explosion, nuclear accident, volcanic activity, biological hazard, civil unrest, mudslide, tectonic activity, and other forms of natural or man-made disaster shall be anticipated, designed, and have countermeasures applied.
0	The organization:  a. Scans for vulnerabilities in the information system and hosted applications [Assignment: organization-defined frequency and/or randomly in accordance with organization-defined process] and when new vulnerabilities potentially affecting the system/applications are identified and reported;  b. Employs vulnerability scanning tools and techniques that facilitate interoperability among tools and automate parts of the vulnerability management process by using standards for:    1. Enumerating platforms, software flaws, and improper configurations;    2. Formatting checklists and test procedures; and    3. Measuring vulnerability impact;  c. Analyzes vulnerability scan reports and results from security control assessments;  d. Remediates legitimate vulnerabilities [Assignment: organization-defined response times], in accordance with an organizational assessment of risk; and  e. Shares information obtained from the vulnerability scanning process and security control assessments with [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles] to help eliminate similar vulnerabilities in other information systems (i.e., systemic weaknesses or deficiencies).	The BYOD policy shall clarify the systems and servers allowed for use or access on a BYOD-enabled device.
1	Asset owners shall review users' access rights at regular intervals.	User access shall be authorized and revalidated for entitlement appropriateness, at planned intervals, by the organization's business leadership or other accountable business role or function supported by evidence to demonstrate the organization is adhering to the rule of least privilege based on job function. For identified access violations, remediation must follow established user access policies and procedures.
1	Utilize centrally managed anti-malware software to continuously monitor and defend each of the organization’s workstations and servers.	The mobile device policy shall require the BYOD user to perform backups of data, prohibit the usage of unapproved application stores, and require the use of anti-malware software (where supported).
0	Require all remote login access to the organization’s network to encrypt data in transit and use multi-factor authentication.	A consistent unified framework for business continuity planning and plan development shall be established, documented, and adopted to ensure all business continuity plans are consistent in addressing priorities for testing, maintenance, and information security requirements.  Requirements for business continuity plans include the following:  • Defined purpose and scope, aligned with relevant dependencies  • Accessible to and understood by those who will use them  • Owned by a named person(s) who is responsible for their review, update, and approval  • Defined lines of communication, roles, and responsibilities  • Detailed recovery procedures, manual work-around, and reference information  • Method for plan invocation
0	A visitor log is used to maintain a physical audit trail of visitor activity to the facility as well as computer rooms and data centers where cardholder data is stored or transmitted.	Policies and procedures shall be established for managing the risks associated with applying changes to:  • Business-critical or customer (tenant)-impacting (physical and virtual) applications and system-system interface (API) designs and configurations.  • Infrastructure network and systems components. Technical measures shall be implemented to provide assurance that all changes directly correspond to a registered change request, business-critical or customer (tenant), and/or authorization by, the customer (tenant) as per agreement (SLA) prior to deployment.
0	o What dependencies relevant to the restoration process exist? Include suppliers and outsource partners.	All data shall be designated with stewardship, with assigned responsibilities defined, documented, and communicated.
0	Before deploying any new asset, change all default passwords to have values consistent with administrative level accounts.	To reduce the risks from environmental threats, hazards, and opportunities for unauthorized access, equipment shall be kept away from locations subject to high probability environmental risks and supplemented by redundant equipment located at a reasonable distance.
0	The organization manages individual identifiers by uniquely identifying each individual as [Assignment: organization-defined characteristic identifying individual status].	The organization manages individual identifiers by uniquely identifying each individual as [Assignment: organization-defined characteristic identifying individual status].
0	What measures are taken to ensure third party service levels are met and maintained?	There shall be a defined and documented method for determining the impact of any disruption to the organization (cloud provider, cloud consumer) that must incorporate the following:  • Identify critical products and services  • Identify all dependencies, including processes, applications, business partners, and third party service providers  • Understand threats to critical products and services  • Determine impacts resulting from planned or unplanned disruptions and how these vary over time  • Establish the maximum tolerable period for disruption  • Establish priorities for recovery  • Establish recovery time objectives for resumption of critical products and services within their maximum tolerable period of disruption  • Estimate the resources required for resumption
1	Agreements shall address the secure transfer of business information between the organization and external parties.	Data input and output integrity routines (i.e., reconciliation and edit checks) shall be implemented for application interfaces and databases to prevent manual or systematic processing errors, corruption of data, or misuse.
0	Ensure that all network traffic to or from the Internet passes through an authenticated application layer proxy that is configured to filter unauthorized connections.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to ensure the development and/or acquisition of new data, physical or virtual applications, infrastructure network, and systems components, or any corporate, operations and/or data center facilities have been pre-authorized by the organization's business leadership or other accountable business role or function.
1	• Are there any provisions for exporting user-created applications in a standard format?	Policies, procedures, and mutually-agreed upon provisions and/or terms shall be established to satisfy customer (tenant) requirements for service-to-service application (API) and information processing interoperability, and portability for application development and information exchange, usage, and integrity persistence.
0	Establish a process to accept and address reports of software vulnerabilities, including providing a means for external entities to contact your security group.	There shall be a defined and documented method for determining the impact of any disruption to the organization (cloud provider, cloud consumer) that must incorporate the following:  • Identify critical products and services  • Identify all dependencies, including processes, applications, business partners, and third party service providers  • Understand threats to critical products and services  • Determine impacts resulting from planned or unplanned disruptions and how these vary over time  • Establish the maximum tolerable period for disruption  • Establish priorities for recovery  • Establish recovery time objectives for resumption of critical products and services within their maximum tolerable period of disruption  • Estimate the resources required for resumption
1	Information security responsibilities and duties that remain  valid  after termination or change of employment shall be defined, communicated to the employee or contractor and enforced.	Roles and responsibilities for performing employment termination or change in employment procedures shall be assigned, documented, and communicated.
0	Executive management shall establish responsibility for the protection of cardholder data and a PCI DSS compliance program to include:  Overall accountability for maintaining PCI DSS compliance  Defining a charter for a PCI DSS compliance program  Providing updates to executive management and board of directors on PCI DSS compliance initiatives and issues, including remediation activities, at least annually	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes implemented, for maintaining a safe and secure working environment in offices, rooms, facilities, and secure areas storing sensitive information.
1	Configure monitoring systems to record network packets passing through the boundary at each of the organization’s network boundaries.	Secured and encrypted communication channels shall be used when migrating physical servers, applications, or data to virtualized servers and, where possible, shall use a network segregated from production-level networks for such migrations.
0	The organization: (a) Establishes and administers privileged user accounts in accordance with a role-based access scheme that organizes allowed information system access and privileges into roles; (b) Monitors privileged role assignments; and (c) Takes [Assignment: organization-defined actions] when privileged role assignments are no longer appropriate.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to ensure the development and/or acquisition of new data, physical or virtual applications, infrastructure network, and systems components, or any corporate, operations and/or data center facilities have been pre-authorized by the organization's business leadership or other accountable business role or function.
0	To make users accountable for safeguarding their authentication information.	Policies and procedures shall be implemented to ensure the consistent review of service agreements (e.g., SLAs) between providers and customers (tenants) across the relevant supply chain (upstream/downstream). Reviews shall be performed at least annually and identify any non-conformance to established agreements. The reviews should result in actions to address service-level conflicts or inconsistencies resulting from disparate supplier relationships.
1	The implementation of changes, including patches, service packs, and other updates and modifications, shall be controlled by the use of formal change control procedures.	Changes to mobile device operating systems, patch levels, and/or applications shall be managed through the company's change management processes.
0	The organization:  (a)   Measures the time between flaw identification and flaw remediation; and  (b)   Establishes [Assignment: organization-defined benchmarks] for taking corrective actions.	The organization:  (a)   Measures the time between flaw identification and flaw remediation; and  (b)   Establishes [Assignment: organization-defined benchmarks] for taking corrective actions.
1	Retain audit trail history for at least one year, with a minimum of three months immediately available for analysis (for example, online, archived, or restorable from backup).	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for defining and adhering to the retention period of any critical asset as per established policies and procedures, as well as applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance obligations. Backup and recovery measures shall be incorporated as part of business continuity planning and tested accordingly for effectiveness.
1	The organization conducts capacity planning so that necessary capacity for information processing, telecommunications, and environmental support exists during contingency operations.	A consistent unified framework for business continuity planning and plan development shall be established, documented, and adopted to ensure all business continuity plans are consistent in addressing priorities for testing, maintenance, and information security requirements.  Requirements for business continuity plans include the following:  • Defined purpose and scope, aligned with relevant dependencies  • Accessible to and understood by those who will use them  • Owned by a named person(s) who is responsible for their review, update, and approval  • Defined lines of communication, roles, and responsibilities  • Detailed recovery procedures, manual work-around, and reference information  • Method for plan invocation
0	The organization:  a. Establishes an alternate storage site including necessary agreements to permit the storage and retrieval of information system backup information; and  b. Ensures that the alternate storage site provides information security safeguards equivalent to that of the primary site.	Access to, and use of, audit tools that interact with the organization's information systems shall be appropriately segregated and access restricted to prevent inappropriate disclosure and tampering of log data.
0	The organization: a. Uses software and associated documentation in accordance with contract agreements and copyright laws; b. Tracks the use of software and associated documentation protected by quantity licenses to control copying and distribution; and c. Controls and documents the use of peer-to-peer file sharing technology to ensure that this capability is not used for the unauthorized distribution, display, performance, or reproduction of copyrighted work.	The organization: a. Uses software and associated documentation in accordance with contract agreements and copyright laws; b. Tracks the use of software and associated documentation protected by quantity licenses to control copying and distribution; and c. Controls and documents the use of peer-to-peer file sharing technology to ensure that this capability is not used for the unauthorized distribution, display, performance, or reproduction of copyrighted work.
0	The organization shall establish, document, implement and maintain processes, procedures and controls to ensure the required level of continuity for information security during an adverse situation.	A security awareness training program shall be established for all contractors, third-party users, and employees of the organization and mandated when appropriate. All individuals with access to organizational data shall receive appropriate awareness training and regular updates in organizational procedures, processes, and policies relating to their professional function relative to the organization.
1	Information systems shall be regularly reviewed for compliance with the organization's information security policies and standards.	The provider shall use open and published APIs to ensure support for interoperability between components and to facilitate migrating applications.
1	Use appropriate facility entry controls to limit and monitor physical access to systems in the cardholder data environment.	Data center utilities services and environmental conditions (e.g., water, power, temperature and humidity controls, telecommunications, and internet connectivity) shall be secured, monitored, maintained, and tested for continual effectiveness at planned intervals to ensure protection from unauthorized interception or damage, and designed with automated fail-over or other redundancies in the event of planned or unplanned disruptions.
1	o How are the detection capabilities structured? o How can the cloud customer report anomalies and security events to the provider? o What facilities does the provider allow for customer-selected third party RTSM services to intervene in their systems (where appropriate) or to co-ordinate incident response capabilities with the cloud provider?         o Is there a real time security monitoring (RTSM) service in place? Is the service outsourced? What kind of parameters and services are monitored? o Do you provide (upon request) a periodical report on security incidents (eg,. according to the ITIL definition)? o For how long are the security logs retained? Are those logs securely stored? Who has access to the logs? o Is it possible for the customer to build a HIPS/HIDS in the virtual machine image? Is it possible to integrate the information collected by the intrusion detection and prevention systems of the customer into the RTSM service of the cloud provider or that of a third party? 	Higher levels of assurance are required for protection, retention, and lifecycle management of audit logs, adhering to applicable legal, statutory or regulatory compliance obligations and providing unique user access accountability to detect potentially suspicious network behaviors and/or file integrity anomalies, and to support forensic investigative capabilities in the event of a security breach.
1	Implement incident response procedures in the event unauthorized wireless access points are detected.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to protect wireless network environments, including the following:  • Perimeter firewalls implemented and configured to restrict unauthorized traffic  • Security settings enabled with strong encryption for authentication and transmission, replacing vendor default settings (e.g., encryption keys, passwords, and SNMP community strings)  • User access to wireless network devices restricted to authorized personnel  • The capability to detect the presence of unauthorized (rogue) wireless network devices for a timely disconnect from the network
1	The organization analyzes changes to the information system to determine potential security impacts prior to change implementation.	Policies and procedures shall be established for managing the risks associated with applying changes to:  • Business-critical or customer (tenant)-impacting (physical and virtual) applications and system-system interface (API) designs and configurations.  • Infrastructure network and systems components. Technical measures shall be implemented to provide assurance that all changes directly correspond to a registered change request, business-critical or customer (tenant), and/or authorization by, the customer (tenant) as per agreement (SLA) prior to deployment.
0	 The information system limits the number of concurrent sessions for each [Assignment: organization-defined account and/or account type] to [Assignment: organization-defined number].	 The information system limits the number of concurrent sessions for each [Assignment: organization-defined account and/or account type] to [Assignment: organization-defined number].
1	Networks shall be managed and controlled to protect information in systems and applications.	Network environments and virtual instances shall be designed and configured to restrict and monitor traffic between trusted and untrusted connections. These configurations shall be reviewed at least annually, and supported by a documented justification for use for all allowed services, protocols, ports, and by compensating controls.
0	The organization:  a. Develops, documents, and disseminates to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]:    1. A personnel security policy that addresses purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment, coordination among organizational entities, and compliance; and    2. Procedures to facilitate the implementation of the personnel security policy and associated personnel security controls; and  b. Reviews and updates the current:    1. Personnel security policy [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and    2. Personnel security procedures [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	Physical protection against damage from natural causes and disasters, as well as deliberate attacks, including fire, flood, atmospheric electrical discharge, solar induced geomagnetic storm, wind, earthquake, tsunami, explosion, nuclear accident, volcanic activity, biological hazard, civil unrest, mudslide, tectonic activity, and other forms of natural or man-made disaster shall be anticipated, designed, and have countermeasures applied.
1	Data protection and privacy shall be ensured as required in relevant legislation, regulations, and contractual clauses.	Policies and procedures shall be established for the management of cryptographic keys in the service's cryptosystem (e.g., lifecycle management from key generation to revocation and replacement, public key infrastructure, cryptographic protocol design and algorithms used, access controls in place for secure key generation, and exchange and storage including segregation of keys used for encrypted data or sessions). Upon request, provider shall inform the customer (tenant) of changes within the cryptosystem, especially if the customer (tenant) data is used as part of the service, and/or the customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of the control.
0	Install personal firewall software or equivalent functionality on any portable computing devices (including company and/or employee-owned) that connect to the Internet when outside the network (for example, laptops used by employees), and which are also used to access the CDE. Firewall (or equivalent) configurations include:  Specific configuration settings are defined.  Personal firewall (or equivalent functionality) is actively running.  Personal firewall (or equivalent functionality) is not alterable by users of the portable computing devices.	Provisioning user access (e.g., employees, contractors, customers (tenants), business partners, and/or supplier relationships) to data and organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) applications, infrastructure systems, and network components shall be authorized by the organization's management prior to access being granted and appropriately restricted as per established policies and procedures. Upon request, provider shall inform customer (tenant) of this user access, especially if customer (tenant) data is used as part the service and/or customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of control.
1	Ensure that the hardware asset inventory records the network address, hardware address, machine name, data asset owner, and department for each asset and whether the hardware asset has been approved to connect to the network.	An inventory of all mobile devices used to store and access company data shall be kept and maintained. All changes to the status of these devices (i.e., operating system and patch levels, lost or decommissioned status, and to whom the device is assigned or approved for usage (BYOD)) will be included for each device in the inventory.
1	Keep cardholder data storage to a minimum by implementing data retention and disposal policies, procedures and processes that include at least the following for all cardholder data (CHD) storage:  Limiting data storage amount and retention time to that which is required for legal, regulatory, and/or business requirements  Specific retention requirements for cardholder data  Processes for secure deletion of data when no longer needed  A quarterly process for identifying and securely deleting stored cardholder data that exceeds defined retention.PCI DSS Requirements	Data related to electronic commerce (ecommerce) that traverses public networks shall be appropriately classified and protected from fraudulent activity, unauthorized disclosure, or modification in such a manner to prevent contract dispute and compromise of data.
1	• How will the data provided by the customer and the customer’s customers, be collected, processed and transferred?	Organizations shall create and maintain a control framework which captures standards, regulatory, legal, and statutory requirements relevant for their business needs. The control framework shall be reviewed at least annually to ensure changes that could affect the business processes are reflected.
1	Ensure network engineers use a dedicated machine for all administrative tasks or tasks requiring elevated access. This machine shall be segmented from the organization’s primary network and not be allowed Internet access. This machine shall not be used for reading email, composing documents, or surfing the Internet.	Secured and encrypted communication channels shall be used when migrating physical servers, applications, or data to virtualized servers and, where possible, shall use a network segregated from production-level networks for such migrations.
1	Disable peer-to-peer (ad hoc) wireless network capabilities on wireless clients.	User access to diagnostic and configuration ports shall be restricted to authorized individuals and applications.
0	The organization:  a. Employs malicious code protection mechanisms at information system entry and exit points to detect and eradicate malicious code;  b. Updates malicious code protection mechanisms whenever new releases are available in accordance with organizational configuration management policy and procedures;  c. Configures malicious code protection mechanisms to:    1. Perform periodic scans of the information system [Assignment: organization-defined frequency] and real-time scans of files from external sources at [Selection (one or more); endpoint; network entry/exit points] as the files are downloaded, opened, or executed in accordance with organizational security policy; and    2. [Selection (one or more): block malicious code; quarantine malicious code; send alert to administrator; [Assignment: organization-defined action]] in response to malicious code detection; and  d. Addresses the receipt of false positives during malicious code detection and eradication and the resulting potential impact on the availability of the information system.	Proper forensic procedures, including chain of custody, are required for the presentation of evidence to support potential legal action subject to the relevant jurisdiction after an information security incident. Upon notification, customers and/or other external business partners impacted by a security breach shall be given the opportunity to participate as is legally permissible in the forensic investigation.
0	Use either video cameras or access control mechanisms (or both) to monitor individual physical access to sensitive areas. Review collected data and correlate with other entries. Store for at least three months, unless otherwise restricted by law.	Pursuant to local laws, regulations, ethics, and contractual constraints, all employment candidates, contractors, and third parties shall be subject to background verification proportional to the data classification to be accessed, the business requirements, and acceptable risk.
1	Use only standardized and extensively reviewed encryption algorithms.	Higher levels of assurance are required for protection, retention, and lifecycle management of audit logs, adhering to applicable legal, statutory or regulatory compliance obligations and providing unique user access accountability to detect potentially suspicious network behaviors and/or file integrity anomalies, and to support forensic investigative capabilities in the event of a security breach.
1	Alert when users deviate from normal login behavior, such as time-of-day, workstation location and duration.	Higher levels of assurance are required for protection, retention, and lifecycle management of audit logs, adhering to applicable legal, statutory or regulatory compliance obligations and providing unique user access accountability to detect potentially suspicious network behaviors and/or file integrity anomalies, and to support forensic investigative capabilities in the event of a security breach.
1	Manage IDs used by third parties to access, support, or maintain system components via remote access as follows:  Enabled only during the time period needed and disabled when not in use.  Monitored when in use.	Timely de-provisioning (revocation or modification) of user access to data and organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) applications, infrastructure systems, and network components, shall be implemented as per established policies and procedures and based on user's change in status (e.g., termination of employment or other business relationship, job change, or transfer). Upon request, provider shall inform customer (tenant) of these changes, especially if customer (tenant) data is used as part the service and/or customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of control.
0	Operating procedures shall be documented and made available to all users who need them.	Policies and procedures shall be established for managing the risks associated with applying changes to:  • Business-critical or customer (tenant)-impacting (physical and virtual) applications and system-system interface (API) designs and configurations.  • Infrastructure network and systems components. Technical measures shall be implemented to provide assurance that all changes directly correspond to a registered change request, business-critical or customer (tenant), and/or authorization by, the customer (tenant) as per agreement (SLA) prior to deployment.
1	Configure monitoring systems to record network packets passing through the boundary at each of the organization’s network boundaries.	Higher levels of assurance are required for protection, retention, and lifecycle management of audit logs, adhering to applicable legal, statutory or regulatory compliance obligations and providing unique user access accountability to detect potentially suspicious network behaviors and/or file integrity anomalies, and to support forensic investigative capabilities in the event of a security breach.
1	Secure audit trails so they cannot be altered.	Access to, and use of, audit tools that interact with the organization's information systems shall be appropriately segregated and access restricted to prevent inappropriate disclosure and tampering of log data.
1	Store secret and private keys used to encrypt/decrypt cardholder data in one (or more) of the following forms at all times:  Encrypted with a key-encrypting key that is at least as strong as the data- encrypting key, and that is stored separately from the data-encrypting key  Within a secure cryptographic device (such as a hardware (host) security module (HSM) or PTS-approved point-of-interaction device)  As at least two full-length key components or key shares, in accordance with an industry- accepted method	Policies and procedures shall be established for the management of cryptographic keys in the service's cryptosystem (e.g., lifecycle management from key generation to revocation and replacement, public key infrastructure, cryptographic protocol design and algorithms used, access controls in place for secure key generation, and exchange and storage including segregation of keys used for encrypted data or sessions). Upon request, provider shall inform the customer (tenant) of changes within the cryptosystem, especially if the customer (tenant) data is used as part of the service, and/or the customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of the control.
0	The organization:  (a)   Measures the time between flaw identification and flaw remediation; and  (b)   Establishes [Assignment: organization-defined benchmarks] for taking corrective actions.	Executive and line management shall take formal action to support information security through clearly-documented direction and commitment, and shall ensure the action has been assigned.
1	The organization:  (a)   Conducts an organizational assessment of risk prior to the acquisition or outsourcing of dedicated information security services; and  (b)   Ensures that the acquisition or outsourcing of dedicated information security services is approved by [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles].	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to ensure the development and/or acquisition of new data, physical or virtual applications, infrastructure network, and systems components, or any corporate, operations and/or data center facilities have been pre-authorized by the organization's business leadership or other accountable business role or function.
0	Networks shall be managed and controlled to protect information in systems and applications.	Each operating system shall be hardened to provide only necessary ports, protocols, and services to meet business needs and have in place supporting technical controls such as: antivirus, file integrity monitoring, and logging as part of their baseline operating build standard or template.
0	• Can the client perform their own data extraction to verify that the format is universal and is capable of being migrated to another cloud provider?	Higher levels of assurance are required for protection, retention, and lifecycle management of audit logs, adhering to applicable legal, statutory or regulatory compliance obligations and providing unique user access accountability to detect potentially suspicious network behaviors and/or file integrity anomalies, and to support forensic investigative capabilities in the event of a security breach.
0	Information involved in application service transactions shall be protected to prevent incomplete transmission, mis-routing, unauthorized message alteration, unauthorized disclosure, unauthorized message duplication or replay.	External business partners shall adhere to the same policies and procedures for change management, release, and testing as internal developers within the organization (e.g., ITIL service management processes).
0	The organization: (a) Establishes and administers privileged user accounts in accordance with a role-based access scheme that organizes allowed information system access and privileges into roles; (b) Monitors privileged role assignments; and (c) Takes [Assignment: organization-defined actions] when privileged role assignments are no longer appropriate.	Mechanisms shall be put in place to monitor and quantify the types, volumes, and costs of information security incidents.
1	Equipment shall be sited or protected to reduce the risks from environmental threats and hazards, and opportunities for unauthorized access.	To reduce the risks from environmental threats, hazards, and opportunities for unauthorized access, equipment shall be kept away from locations subject to high probability environmental risks and supplemented by redundant equipment located at a reasonable distance.
1	All relevant legislative statutory, regulatory, contractual requirements and the organization's approach to meet these requirements shall be explicitly identified, documented and kept up to date for each information system and the organization.	Risk assessments associated with data governance requirements shall be conducted at planned intervals and shall consider the following:  • Awareness of where sensitive data is stored and transmitted across applications, databases, servers, and network infrastructure  • Compliance with defined retention periods and end-of-life disposal requirements  • Data classification and protection from unauthorized use, access, loss, destruction, and falsification
0	Restrict access to privileged user IDs to least privileges necessary to perform job responsibilities.	Access to all hypervisor management functions or administrative consoles for systems hosting virtualized systems shall be restricted to personnel based upon the principle of least privilege and supported through technical controls (e.g., two-factor authentication, audit trails, IP address filtering, firewalls, and TLS encapsulated communications to the administrative consoles).
1	An access control policy shall be established, documented and reviewed based on business and information security requirements.	Policies and procedures shall be established and maintained in support of data security to include (confidentiality, integrity, and availability) across multiple system interfaces, jurisdictions, and business functions to prevent improper disclosure, alteration, or destruction.
0	Deny communication over unauthorized TCP or UDP ports or application traffic to ensure that only authorized protocols are allowed to cross the network boundary in or out of the network at each of the organization’s network boundaries.	Risks shall be mitigated to an acceptable level. Acceptance levels based on risk criteria shall be established and documented in accordance with reasonable resolution time frames and stakeholder approval.
1	Information systems shall be regularly reviewed for compliance with the organization's information security policies and standards.	The mobile device policy shall require the BYOD user to perform backups of data, prohibit the usage of unapproved application stores, and require the use of anti-malware software (where supported).
0	Permit only “established” connections into the network.	Provisioning user access (e.g., employees, contractors, customers (tenants), business partners, and/or supplier relationships) to data and organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) applications, infrastructure systems, and network components shall be authorized by the organization's management prior to access being granted and appropriately restricted as per established policies and procedures. Upon request, provider shall inform customer (tenant) of this user access, especially if customer (tenant) data is used as part the service and/or customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of control.
0	Information systems shall be regularly reviewed for compliance with the organization's information security policies and standards.	Policies and procedures shall be established to require that unattended workspaces do not have openly visible (e.g., on a desktop) sensitive documents and user computing sessions are disabled after an established period of inactivity.
0	Review custom code prior to release to production or customers in order to identify any potential coding vulnerability (using either manual or automated processes) to include at least the following:  Code changes are reviewed by individuals other than the originating code author, and by individuals knowledgeable about code-review techniques and secure coding practices.  Code reviews ensure code is developed according to secure coding guidelines  Appropriate corrections are implemented prior to release.  Code-review results are reviewed and approved by management prior to release.(Continued on next page)PCI DSS Requirements	Providers shall assure reasonable information security across their information supply chain by performing an annual review. The review shall include all partners/third party-providers upon which their information supply chain depends on.
1	The organization:  a. Requires personnel to report suspected security incidents to the organizational incident response capability within [Assignment: organization-defined time period]; and  b. Reports security incident information to [Assignment: organization-defined authorities].	Points of contact for applicable regulation authorities, national and local law enforcement, and other legal jurisdictional authorities shall be maintained and regularly updated (e.g., change in impacted-scope and/or a change in any compliance obligation) to ensure direct compliance liaisons have been established and to be prepared for a forensic investigation requiring rapid engagement with law enforcement.
1	All information security responsibilities shall be defined and allocated.	Workforce personnel and external business relationships shall be informed of their responsibilities and, if required, shall consent and/or contractually agree to report all information security events in a timely manner. Information security events shall be reported through predefined communications channels in a timely manner adhering to applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance obligations.
1	Information systems shall be regularly reviewed for compliance with the organization's information security policies and standards.	The BYOD policy shall define the device and eligibility requirements to allow for BYOD usage.
0	All relevant legislative statutory, regulatory, contractual requirements and the organization's approach to meet these requirements shall be explicitly identified, documented and kept up to date for each information system and the organization.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to restrict the installation of unauthorized software on organizationally-owned or managed user end-point devices (e.g., issued workstations, laptops, and mobile devices) and IT infrastructure network and systems components.
0	The organization employs automated mechanisms to integrate audit review, analysis, and reporting processes to support organizational processes for investigation and response to suspicious activities.	The organization employs automated mechanisms to integrate audit review, analysis, and reporting processes to support organizational processes for investigation and response to suspicious activities.
0	： To prevent exploitation of technical vulnerabilities.	Secured and encrypted communication channels shall be used when migrating physical servers, applications, or data to virtualized servers and, where possible, shall use a network segregated from production-level networks for such migrations.
0	Managers shall regularly review the compliance of information processing and procedures within their area of responsibility with the appropriate security policies, standards and any other security requirements.	Providers shall review the risk management and governance processes of their partners so that practices are consistent and aligned to account for risks inherited from other members of that partner's cloud supply chain.
1	All information security responsibilities shall be defined and allocated.	An Information Security Management Program (ISMP) shall be developed, documented, approved, and implemented that includes administrative, technical, and physical safeguards to protect assets and data from loss, misuse, unauthorized access, disclosure, alteration, and destruction. The security program shall include, but not be limited to, the following areas insofar as they relate to the characteristics of the business:  • Risk management  • Security policy  • Organization of information security  • Asset management  • Human resources security  • Physical and environmental security  • Communications and operations management  • Access control  • Information systems acquisition, development, and maintenance
1	The organization:  a. Develops, documents, and disseminates to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]:    1. A physical and environmental protection policy that addresses purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment, coordination among organizational entities, and compliance; and    2. Procedures to facilitate the implementation of the physical and environmental protection policy and associated physical and environmental protection controls; and  b. Reviews and updates the current:    1. Physical and environmental protection policy [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and    2. Physical and environmental protection procedures [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes implemented, for maintaining a safe and secure working environment in offices, rooms, facilities, and secure areas storing sensitive information.
0	Enforce network-based URL filters that limit a system’s ability to connect to websites not approved by the organization. This filtering shall be enforced for each of the organization’s systems, whether they are physically at an organization’s facilities or not.	Enforce network-based URL filters that limit a system’s ability to connect to websites not approved by the organization. This filtering shall be enforced for each of the organization’s systems, whether they are physically at an organization’s facilities or not.
1	The organization monitors physical intrusion alarms and surveillance equipment. 	Ingress and egress to secure areas shall be constrained and monitored by physical access control mechanisms to ensure that only authorized personnel are allowed access.
1	All users shall have a unique identifier (user ID) for their personal use only, and an authentication technique shall be implemented to substantiate the claimed identity of a user.	Policies and procedures shall be established to store and manage identity information about every person who accesses IT infrastructure and to determine their level of access. Policies shall also be developed to control access to network resources based on user identity.
1	• Detail your change control procedure and policy. This should also include the process used to re-assess risks as a result of changes and clarify whether the outputs are available to end customers.	The identification, assessment, and prioritization of risks posed by business processes requiring third-party access to the organization's information systems and data shall be followed by coordinated application of resources to minimize, monitor, and measure likelihood and impact of unauthorized or inappropriate access. Compensating controls derived from the risk analysis shall be implemented prior to provisioning access.
1	Injection flaws, particularly SQL injection. Also consider OS Command Injection, LDAP and XPath injection flaws as well as other injection flaws.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for the use of encryption protocols for protection of sensitive data in storage (e.g., file servers, databases, and end-user workstations), data in use (memory), and data in transmission (e.g., system interfaces, over public networks, and electronic messaging) as per applicable legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations.
1	Acceptable network locations for the technologies	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to restrict the installation of unauthorized software on organizationally-owned or managed user end-point devices (e.g., issued workstations, laptops, and mobile devices) and IT infrastructure network and systems components.
1	A formal policy shall be in place, and appropriate security measures shall be adopted to protect against the risks of using mobile computing and communication devices.	A documented list of approved application stores has been defined as acceptable for mobile devices accessing or storing provider managed data.
1	Ensure that security policies and operational procedures for protecting stored cardholder data are documented, in use, and known to all affected parties.	Physical protection against damage from natural causes and disasters, as well as deliberate attacks, including fire, flood, atmospheric electrical discharge, solar induced geomagnetic storm, wind, earthquake, tsunami, explosion, nuclear accident, volcanic activity, biological hazard, civil unrest, mudslide, tectonic activity, and other forms of natural or man-made disaster shall be anticipated, designed, and have countermeasures applied.
1	Use Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) logging on all DHCP servers or IP address management tools to update the organization’s hardware asset inventory.	Assets must be classified in terms of business criticality, service-level expectations, and operational continuity requirements. A complete inventory of business-critical assets located at all sites and/or geographical locations and their usage over time shall be maintained and updated regularly, and assigned ownership by defined roles and responsibilities.
0	Incorporate multi-factor authentication for all non-console access into the CDE for personnel with administrative access.	Organizations shall follow a defined quality change control and testing process (e.g., ITIL Service Management) with established baselines, testing, and release standards that focus on system availability, confidentiality, and integrity of systems and services.
1	Ensure that all system components and software are protected from known vulnerabilities by installing applicable vendor- supplied security patches. Install critical security patches within one month of release.	Organizations shall follow a defined quality change control and testing process (e.g., ITIL Service Management) with established baselines, testing, and release standards that focus on system availability, confidentiality, and integrity of systems and services.
1	• Do you monitor the temperature and humidity in the data centre? o Air-conditioning considerations or monitoring? 	Data center utilities services and environmental conditions (e.g., water, power, temperature and humidity controls, telecommunications, and internet connectivity) shall be secured, monitored, maintained, and tested for continual effectiveness at planned intervals to ensure protection from unauthorized interception or damage, and designed with automated fail-over or other redundancies in the event of planned or unplanned disruptions.
0	Privacy and protection of personally identifiable information shall be ensured as required in relevant legislation and regulation where applicable.	User access shall be authorized and revalidated for entitlement appropriateness, at planned intervals, by the organization's business leadership or other accountable business role or function supported by evidence to demonstrate the organization is adhering to the rule of least privilege based on job function. For identified access violations, remediation must follow established user access policies and procedures.
1	The organization defines, documents, approves, and enforces physical and logical access restrictions associated with changes to the information system.	Access to the organization's own developed applications, program, or object source code, or any other form of intellectual property (IP), and use of proprietary software shall be appropriately restricted following the rule of least privilege based on job function as per established user access policies and procedures.
0	Ensure that there are written incident response plans that define roles of personnel as well as phases of incident handling/management.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to protect wireless network environments, including the following:  • Perimeter firewalls implemented and configured to restrict unauthorized traffic  • Security settings enabled with strong encryption for authentication and transmission, replacing vendor default settings (e.g., encryption keys, passwords, and SNMP community strings)  • User access to wireless network devices restricted to authorized personnel  • The capability to detect the presence of unauthorized (rogue) wireless network devices for a timely disconnect from the network
1	Apply static and dynamic analysis tools to verify that secure coding practices are being adhered to for internally developed software.	Applications and programming interfaces (APIs) shall be designed, developed, deployed, and tested in accordance with leading industry standards (e.g., OWASP for web applications) and adhere to applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance obligations.
0	Additional requirement for service providers only: Executive management shall establish responsibility for the protection of cardholder data and a PCI DSS compliance program to include:  Overall accountability for maintaining PCI DSS compliance  Defining a charter for a PCI DSS compliance program and communication to executive management	Policies and procedures shall be established to store and manage identity information about every person who accesses IT infrastructure and to determine their level of access. Policies shall also be developed to control access to network resources based on user identity.
1	Always change vendor-supplied defaults and remove or disable unnecessary default accounts before installing a system on the network.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to restrict the installation of unauthorized software on organizationally-owned or managed user end-point devices (e.g., issued workstations, laptops, and mobile devices) and IT infrastructure network and systems components.
0	o What dependencies relevant to the restoration process exist? Include suppliers and outsource partners.	Audit plans shall be developed and maintained to address business process disruptions. Auditing plans shall focus on reviewing the effectiveness of the implementation of security operations. All audit activities must be agreed upon prior to executing any audits.
0	Only use up-to-date and trusted third-party components for the software developed by the organization.	Only use up-to-date and trusted third-party components for the software developed by the organization.
0	Develop configuration standards for all system components. Assure that these standards address all known security vulnerabilities and are consistent with industry-accepted system hardening standards.	The mobile device policy shall prohibit the circumvention of built-in security controls on mobile devices (e.g., jailbreaking or rooting) and shall enforce the prohibition through detective and preventative controls on the device or through a centralized device management system (e.g., mobile device management).
0	Buffer overflows	The identification, assessment, and prioritization of risks posed by business processes requiring third-party access to the organization's information systems and data shall be followed by coordinated application of resources to minimize, monitor, and measure likelihood and impact of unauthorized or inappropriate access. Compensating controls derived from the risk analysis shall be implemented prior to provisioning access.
1	The organization employs the principle of least privilege, allowing only authorized accesses for users (or processes acting on behalf of users) which are necessary to accomplish assigned tasks in accordance with organizational missions and business functions.	User access policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for ensuring appropriate identity, entitlement, and access management for all internal corporate and customer (tenant) users with access to data and organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) application interfaces and infrastructure network and systems components. These policies, procedures, processes, and measures must incorporate the following:  • Procedures, supporting roles, and responsibilities for provisioning and de-provisioning user account entitlements following the rule of least privilege based on job function (e.g., internal employee and contingent staff personnel changes, customer-controlled access, suppliers' business relationships, or other third-party business relationships)  • Business case considerations for higher levels of assurance and multi-factor authentication secrets (e.g., management interfaces, key generation, remote access, segregation of duties, emergency access, large-scale provisioning or geographically-distributed deployments, and personnel redundancy for critical systems)  • Access segmentation to sessions and data in multi-tenant architectures by any third party (e.g., provider and/or other customer (tenant))  • Identity trust verification and service-to-service application (API) and information processing interoperability (e.g., SSO and federation)  • Account credential lifecycle management from instantiation through revocation  • Account credential and/or identity store minimization or re-use when feasible  • Authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules for access to data and sessions (e.g., encryption and strong/multi-factor, expireable, non-shared authentication secrets)  • Permissions and supporting capabilities for customer (tenant) controls over authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules for access to data and sessions  • Adherence to applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance requirements
0	Ensure that security policies and operational procedures for protecting stored cardholder data are documented, in use, and known to all affected parties.	Policies and procedures shall be implemented to ensure the consistent review of service agreements (e.g., SLAs) between providers and customers (tenants) across the relevant supply chain (upstream/downstream). Reviews shall be performed at least annually and identify any non-conformance to established agreements. The reviews should result in actions to address service-level conflicts or inconsistencies resulting from disparate supplier relationships.
0	Store secret and private keys used to encrypt/decrypt cardholder data in one (or more) of the following forms at all times:  Encrypted with a key-encrypting key that is at least as strong as the data- encrypting key, and that is stored separately from the data-encrypting key  Within a secure cryptographic device (such as a hardware (host) security module (HSM) or PTS-approved point-of-interaction device)  As at least two full-length key components or key shares, in accordance with an industry- accepted method	The provider shall use secure (e.g., non-clear text and authenticated) standardized network protocols for the import and export of data and to manage the service, and shall make available a document to consumers (tenants) detailing the relevant interoperability and portability standards that are involved.
1	The organization restricts access to [Assignment: organization-defined types of digital and/or non-digital media] to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles].	Physical access to information assets and functions by users and support personnel shall be restricted.
0	The organization:  a. Identifies [Assignment: organization-defined user actions] that can be performed on the information system without identification or authentication consistent with organizational missions/business functions; and  b. Documents and provides supporting rationale in the security plan for the information system, user actions not requiring identification or authentication.	The organization:  a. Identifies [Assignment: organization-defined user actions] that can be performed on the information system without identification or authentication consistent with organizational missions/business functions; and  b. Documents and provides supporting rationale in the security plan for the information system, user actions not requiring identification or authentication.
0	The organization provides basic security awareness training to information system users (including managers, senior executives, and contractors):  a. As part of initial training for new users;  b. When required by information system changes; and  c. [Assignment: organization-defined frequency] thereafter.	Risks shall be mitigated to an acceptable level. Acceptance levels based on risk criteria shall be established and documented in accordance with reasonable resolution time frames and stakeholder approval.
0	• What assurance can the PaaS provider give that access to your data is restricted to your enterprise users and to the applications you own?	The provider shall perform annual internal assessments of conformance to, and effectiveness of, its policies, procedures, and supporting measures and metrics.
0	The organization approves, controls, and monitors information system maintenance tools.	A reliable and mutually agreed upon external time source shall be used to synchronize the system clocks of all relevant information processing systems to facilitate tracing and reconstitution of activity timelines.
1	Ensure that security policies and operational procedures for security monitoring and testing are documented, in use, and known to all affected parties.	Higher levels of assurance are required for protection, retention, and lifecycle management of audit logs, adhering to applicable legal, statutory or regulatory compliance obligations and providing unique user access accountability to detect potentially suspicious network behaviors and/or file integrity anomalies, and to support forensic investigative capabilities in the event of a security breach.
1	Changes to systems within the development lifecycle shall be controlled by the use of formal change control procedures.	Production and non-production environments shall be separated to prevent unauthorized access or changes to information assets. Separation of the environments may include: stateful inspection firewalls, domain/realm authentication sources, and clear segregation of duties for personnel accessing these environments as part of their job duties.
1	Implement audit trails to link all access to system components to each individual user.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to restrict the installation of unauthorized software on organizationally-owned or managed user end-point devices (e.g., issued workstations, laptops, and mobile devices) and IT infrastructure network and systems components.
0	The organization:  a. Authorizes internal connections of [Assignment: organization-defined information system components or classes of components] to the information system; and  b. Documents, for each internal connection, the interface characteristics, security requirements, and the nature of the information communicated.	The organization:  a. Authorizes internal connections of [Assignment: organization-defined information system components or classes of components] to the information system; and  b. Documents, for each internal connection, the interface characteristics, security requirements, and the nature of the information communicated.
1	Equipment shall be sited and protected to reduce the risks from environmental threats and hazards, and opportunities for unauthorized access.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to protect wireless network environments, including the following:  • Perimeter firewalls implemented and configured to restrict unauthorized traffic  • Security settings enabled with strong encryption for authentication and transmission, replacing vendor default settings (e.g., encryption keys, passwords, and SNMP community strings)  • User access to wireless network devices restricted to authorized personnel  • The capability to detect the presence of unauthorized (rogue) wireless network devices for a timely disconnect from the network
0	The organization:  a. Develops, documents, and disseminates to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]:    1. A contingency planning policy that addresses purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment, coordination among organizational entities, and compliance; and    2. Procedures to facilitate the implementation of the contingency planning policy and associated contingency planning controls; and  b. Reviews and updates the current:    1. Contingency planning policy [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and    2. Contingency planning procedures [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	Utility programs capable of potentially overriding system, object, network, virtual machine, and application controls shall be restricted.
1	The organization:  a. Requires personnel to report suspected security incidents to the organizational incident response capability within [Assignment: organization-defined time period]; and  b. Reports security incident information to [Assignment: organization-defined authorities].	The provider shall make security incident information available to all affected customers and providers periodically through electronic methods (e.g., portals).
0	When operating platforms are changed, business critical applications shall be reviewed and tested to ensure there is no adverse impact on organizational operations or security.	Baseline security requirements shall be established for developed or acquired, organizationally-owned or managed, physical or virtual, applications and infrastructure system and network components that comply with applicable legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations. Deviations from standard baseline configurations must be authorized following change management policies and procedures prior to deployment, provisioning, or use. Compliance with security baseline requirements must be reassessed at least annually unless an alternate frequency has been established and authorized based on business needs.
0	To ensure that employees and contractors are aware of and fulfil their information security responsibilities.	Ingress and egress to secure areas shall be constrained and monitored by physical access control mechanisms to ensure that only authorized personnel are allowed access.
0	Data protection and privacy shall be ensured as required in relevant legislation, regulations, and contractual clauses.	Requirements for non-disclosure or confidentiality agreements reflecting the organization's needs for the protection of data and operational details shall be identified, documented, and reviewed at planned intervals.
0	The organization manages information system identifiers by:  a. Receiving authorization from [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles] to assign an individual, group, role, or device identifier;  b. Selecting an identifier that identifies an individual, group, role, or device;  c. Assigning the identifier to the intended individual, group, role, or device;  d. Preventing reuse of identifiers for [Assignment: organization-defined time period]; and  e. Disabling the identifier after [Assignment: organization-defined time period of inactivity].	Audit plans shall be developed and maintained to address business process disruptions. Auditing plans shall focus on reviewing the effectiveness of the implementation of security operations. All audit activities must be agreed upon prior to executing any audits.
1	A formal policy shall be in place, and appropriate security measures shall be adopted to protect against the risks of using mobile computing and communication devices.	A centralized, mobile device management solution shall be deployed to all mobile devices permitted to store, transmit, or process customer data.
0	The organization establishes terms and conditions, consistent with any trust relationships established with other organizations owning, operating, and/or maintaining external information systems, allowing authorized individuals to:  a. Access the information system from external information systems; and  b. Process, store, or transmit organization-controlled information using external information systems.	Policies and procedures are established for permissible storage and access of identities used for authentication to ensure identities are only accessible based on rules of least privilege and replication limitation only to users explicitly defined as business necessary.
0	Changes to information assets and systems shall be controlled and archived.	Changes to information assets and systems shall be controlled and archived.
1	Utilize an active discovery tool to identify devices connected to the organization’s network and update the hardware asset inventory.	An inventory of all mobile devices used to store and access company data shall be kept and maintained. All changes to the status of these devices (i.e., operating system and patch levels, lost or decommissioned status, and to whom the device is assigned or approved for usage (BYOD)) will be included for each device in the inventory.
0	All relevant information security requirements shall be established and agreed with each supplier that may access, process, store, communicate, or provide IT infrastructure components for, the organization's information.	Higher levels of assurance are required for protection, retention, and lifecycle management of audit logs, adhering to applicable legal, statutory or regulatory compliance obligations and providing unique user access accountability to detect potentially suspicious network behaviors and/or file integrity anomalies, and to support forensic investigative capabilities in the event of a security breach.
1	Change control procedures must include the following:	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting processes and technical measures implemented, for timely detection of vulnerabilities within organizationally-owned or managed applications, infrastructure network and system components (e.g., network vulnerability assessment, penetration testing) to ensure the efficiency of implemented security controls. A risk-based model for prioritizing remediation of identified vulnerabilities shall be used. Changes shall be managed through a change management process for all vendor-supplied patches, configuration changes, or changes to the organization's internally developed software. Upon request, the provider informs customer (tenant) of policies and procedures and identified weaknesses especially if customer (tenant) data is used as part the service and/or customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of control.
0	• What data storage and protection controls apply to the user directory (eg, AD, LDAP) and access to it?	A formal disciplinary or sanction policy shall be established for employees who have violated security policies and procedures. Employees shall be made aware of what action might be taken in the event of a violation, and disciplinary measures must be stated in the policies and procedures.
1	Verify user identity before modifying any authentication credential—for example, performing password resets, provisioning new tokens, or generating new keys.	Keys must have identifiable owners (binding keys to identities) and there shall be key management policies.
1	The organization:  a. Maintains temperature and humidity levels within the facility where the information system resides at [Assignment: organization-defined acceptable levels]; and  b. Monitors temperature and humidity levels [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	Physical protection against damage from natural causes and disasters, as well as deliberate attacks, including fire, flood, atmospheric electrical discharge, solar induced geomagnetic storm, wind, earthquake, tsunami, explosion, nuclear accident, volcanic activity, biological hazard, civil unrest, mudslide, tectonic activity, and other forms of natural or man-made disaster shall be anticipated, designed, and have countermeasures applied.
1	The organization:  a. Develops, documents, and disseminates to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]:    1. A security awareness and training policy that addresses purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment, coordination among organizational entities, and compliance; and    2.  Procedures to facilitate the implementation of the security awareness and training policy and associated security awareness and training controls; and  b. Reviews and updates the current:    1. Security awareness and training policy [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and    2.  Security awareness and training procedures [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	All personnel shall be made aware of their roles and responsibilities for:  • Maintaining awareness and compliance with established policies and procedures and applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance obligations.  • Maintaining a safe and secure working environment
1	• Are there documented procedures and APIs for exporting data from the cloud?	Policies, procedures, and mutually-agreed upon provisions and/or terms shall be established to satisfy customer (tenant) requirements for service-to-service application (API) and information processing interoperability, and portability for application development and information exchange, usage, and integrity persistence.
1	The organization: (a) Establishes and administers privileged user accounts in accordance with a role-based access scheme that organizes allowed information system access and privileges into roles; (b) Monitors privileged role assignments; and (c) Takes [Assignment: organization-defined actions] when privileged role assignments are no longer appropriate.	Timely de-provisioning (revocation or modification) of user access to data and organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) applications, infrastructure systems, and network components, shall be implemented as per established policies and procedures and based on user's change in status (e.g., termination of employment or other business relationship, job change, or transfer). Upon request, provider shall inform customer (tenant) of these changes, especially if customer (tenant) data is used as part the service and/or customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of control.
0	Power and telecommunications cabling carrying data or supporting information services shall be protected from interception or damage.	A formal disciplinary or sanction policy shall be established for employees who have violated security policies and procedures. Employees shall be made aware of what action might be taken in the event of a violation, and disciplinary measures must be stated in the policies and procedures.
0	A formal user access provisioning process shall be implemented to assign or revoke access rights for all user types to all systems and services.	Physical access to information assets and functions by users and support personnel shall be restricted.
1	Protect devices that capture payment card data via direct physical interaction with the card from tampering and substitution.	Assets must be classified in terms of business criticality, service-level expectations, and operational continuity requirements. A complete inventory of business-critical assets located at all sites and/or geographical locations and their usage over time shall be maintained and updated regularly, and assigned ownership by defined roles and responsibilities.
1	• Do you only allow authorised maintenance or repair staff onto the site? o How do you check their identity? 	Physical access to information assets and functions by users and support personnel shall be restricted.
1	The organization:  a. Develops, documents, and disseminates to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]:    1. An identification and authentication policy that addresses purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment, coordination among organizational entities, and compliance; and    2. Procedures to facilitate the implementation of the identification and authentication policy and associated identification and authentication controls; and  b. Reviews and updates the current:    1. Identification and authentication policy [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and    2. Identification and authentication procedures [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	User access policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for ensuring appropriate identity, entitlement, and access management for all internal corporate and customer (tenant) users with access to data and organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) application interfaces and infrastructure network and systems components. These policies, procedures, processes, and measures must incorporate the following:  • Procedures, supporting roles, and responsibilities for provisioning and de-provisioning user account entitlements following the rule of least privilege based on job function (e.g., internal employee and contingent staff personnel changes, customer-controlled access, suppliers' business relationships, or other third-party business relationships)  • Business case considerations for higher levels of assurance and multi-factor authentication secrets (e.g., management interfaces, key generation, remote access, segregation of duties, emergency access, large-scale provisioning or geographically-distributed deployments, and personnel redundancy for critical systems)  • Access segmentation to sessions and data in multi-tenant architectures by any third party (e.g., provider and/or other customer (tenant))  • Identity trust verification and service-to-service application (API) and information processing interoperability (e.g., SSO and federation)  • Account credential lifecycle management from instantiation through revocation  • Account credential and/or identity store minimization or re-use when feasible  • Authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules for access to data and sessions (e.g., encryption and strong/multi-factor, expireable, non-shared authentication secrets)  • Permissions and supporting capabilities for customer (tenant) controls over authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules for access to data and sessions  • Adherence to applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance requirements
0	Ensure that the hardware asset inventory records the network address, hardware address, machine name, data asset owner, and department for each asset and whether the hardware asset has been approved to connect to the network.	Third-party service providers shall demonstrate compliance with information security and confidentiality, access control, service definitions, and delivery level agreements included in third-party contracts. Third-party reports, records, and services shall undergo audit and review at least annually to govern and maintain compliance with the service delivery agreements.
1	Before deploying any new asset, change all default passwords to have values consistent with administrative level accounts.	Password policies, applicable to mobile devices, shall be documented and enforced through technical controls on all company devices or devices approved for BYOD usage, and shall prohibit the changing of password/PIN lengths and authentication requirements.
1	Store cryptographic keys in the fewest possible locations.	Platform and data-appropriate encryption (e.g., AES-256) in open/validated formats and standard algorithms shall be required. Keys shall not be stored in the cloud (i.e., at the cloud provider in question), but maintained by the cloud consumer or trusted key management provider. Key management and key usage shall be separated duties.
1	Networks shall be managed and controlled to protect information in systems and applications.	Data related to electronic commerce (ecommerce) that traverses public networks shall be appropriately classified and protected from fraudulent activity, unauthorized disclosure, or modification in such a manner to prevent contract dispute and compromise of data.
1	Use vulnerability scanning and penetration testing tools in concert. The results of vulnerability scanning assessments should be used as a starting point to guide and focus penetration testing efforts.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting processes and technical measures implemented, for timely detection of vulnerabilities within organizationally-owned or managed applications, infrastructure network and system components (e.g., network vulnerability assessment, penetration testing) to ensure the efficiency of implemented security controls. A risk-based model for prioritizing remediation of identified vulnerabilities shall be used. Changes shall be managed through a change management process for all vendor-supplied patches, configuration changes, or changes to the organization's internally developed software. Upon request, the provider informs customer (tenant) of policies and procedures and identified weaknesses especially if customer (tenant) data is used as part the service and/or customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of control.
0	Appropriate contacts with special interest groups or other specialist security forums and professional associations shall be maintained.	The BYOD policy includes clarifying language for the expectation of privacy, requirements for litigation, e-discovery, and legal holds. The BYOD policy shall clearly state the expectations regarding the loss of non-company data in the case that a wipe of the device is required.
1	Utilize centrally managed anti-malware software to continuously monitor and defend each of the organization’s workstations and servers.	Mobile devices connecting to corporate networks, or storing and accessing company information, shall allow for remote software version/patch validation. All mobile devices shall have the latest available security-related patches installed upon general release by the device manufacturer or carrier and authorized IT personnel shall be able to perform these updates remotely.
1	Define access needs for each role, including:  System components and data resources that each role needs to access for their job function  Level of privilege required (for example, user, administrator, etc.) for accessing resources.	Access to the organization's own developed applications, program, or object source code, or any other form of intellectual property (IP), and use of proprietary software shall be appropriately restricted following the rule of least privilege based on job function as per established user access policies and procedures.
0	Physically or logically segregated systems should be used to isolate and run software that is required for business operations but incur higher risk for the organization.	Utility programs capable of potentially overriding system, object, network, virtual machine, and application controls shall be restricted.
0	Physically secure all media.	Authorization must be obtained prior to relocation or transfer of hardware, software, or data to an offsite premises.
0	All individual user accesses to cardholder data	Prior to granting customers access to data, assets, and information systems, identified security, contractual, and regulatory requirements for customer access shall be addressed.
0	Before deploying any new asset, change all default passwords to have values consistent with administrative level accounts.	Changes to mobile device operating systems, patch levels, and/or applications shall be managed through the company's change management processes.
0	Manage IDs used by third parties to access, support, or maintain system components via remote access as follows:  Enabled only during the time period needed and disabled when not in use.  Monitored when in use.	Upon termination of workforce personnel and/or expiration of external business relationships, all organizationally-owned assets shall be returned within an established period.
0	An access control policy shall be established, documented and reviewed based on business and information security requirements.	The company shall have a documented policy prohibiting the installation of non-approved applications or approved applications not obtained through a pre-identified application store.
0	Access to program source code shall be restricted.	Managers are responsible for maintaining awareness of, and complying with, security policies, procedures, and standards that are relevant to their area of responsibility.
0	The organization establishes terms and conditions, consistent with any trust relationships established with other organizations owning, operating, and/or maintaining external information systems, allowing authorized individuals to:  a. Access the information system from external information systems; and  b. Process, store, or transmit organization-controlled information using external information systems.	Access to all hypervisor management functions or administrative consoles for systems hosting virtualized systems shall be restricted to personnel based upon the principle of least privilege and supported through technical controls (e.g., two-factor authentication, audit trails, IP address filtering, firewalls, and TLS encapsulated communications to the administrative consoles).
0	The organization:  a. Develops, documents, and disseminates to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]:    1. A physical and environmental protection policy that addresses purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment, coordination among organizational entities, and compliance; and    2. Procedures to facilitate the implementation of the physical and environmental protection policy and associated physical and environmental protection controls; and  b. Reviews and updates the current:    1. Physical and environmental protection policy [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and    2. Physical and environmental protection procedures [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	Policies and procedures shall be established for the secure disposal of equipment (by asset type) used outside the organization's premises. This shall include a wiping solution or destruction process that renders recovery of information impossible. The erasure shall consist of a full overwrite of the drive to ensure that the erased drive is released to inventory for reuse and deployment, or securely stored until it can be destroyed.
1	Do not allow an individual to submit a new password/passphrase that is the same as any of the last four passwords/passphrases he or she has used.	Keys must have identifiable owners (binding keys to identities) and there shall be key management policies.
1	What measures are taken to ensure third party service levels are met and maintained?	Policies and procedures shall be implemented to ensure the consistent review of service agreements (e.g., SLAs) between providers and customers (tenants) across the relevant supply chain (upstream/downstream). Reviews shall be performed at least annually and identify any non-conformance to established agreements. The reviews should result in actions to address service-level conflicts or inconsistencies resulting from disparate supplier relationships.
0	Build firewall and router configurations that restrict connections between untrusted networks and any system components in the cardholder data environment.	Providers shall inspect, account for, and work with their cloud supply-chain partners to correct data quality errors and associated risks. Providers shall design and implement controls to mitigate and contain data security risks through proper separation of duties, role-based access, and least-privilege access for all personnel within their supply chain.
1	All relevant legislative statutory, regulatory, contractual requirements and the organization's approach to meet these requirements shall be explicitly identified, documented and kept up to date for each information system and the organization.	The BYOD policy and supporting awareness training clearly states the approved applications, application stores, and application extensions and plugins that may be used for BYOD usage.
1	• Define the controls used to mitigate DDoS (distributed denial–of-service) attacks. o Defence in depth (deep packet analysis, traffic throttling, packet black-holing, etc) o Do you have defences against ‘internal’ (originating from the cloud providers networks) attacks as well as external (originating from the Internet or customer networks) attacks? 	Higher levels of assurance are required for protection, retention, and lifecycle management of audit logs, adhering to applicable legal, statutory or regulatory compliance obligations and providing unique user access accountability to detect potentially suspicious network behaviors and/or file integrity anomalies, and to support forensic investigative capabilities in the event of a security breach.
0	Utilize an active discovery tool to identify devices connected to the organization’s network and update the hardware asset inventory.	The provider shall have a documented mobile device policy that includes a documented definition for mobile devices and the acceptable usage and requirements for all mobile devices. The provider shall post and communicate the policy and requirements through the company's security awareness and training program.
0	The organization plans for the resumption of essential missions and business functions within [Assignment: organization-defined time period] of contingency plan activation.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to ensure the development and/or acquisition of new data, physical or virtual applications, infrastructure network, and systems components, or any corporate, operations and/or data center facilities have been pre-authorized by the organization's business leadership or other accountable business role or function.
0	To identify organizational assets and define appropriate protection responsibilities.	The identification, assessment, and prioritization of risks posed by business processes requiring third-party access to the organization's information systems and data shall be followed by coordinated application of resources to minimize, monitor, and measure likelihood and impact of unauthorized or inappropriate access. Compensating controls derived from the risk analysis shall be implemented prior to provisioning access.
0	The organization:  (a)   Authorizes the execution of privileged commands and access to security-relevant information via remote access only for [Assignment: organization-defined needs]; and  (b)   Documents the rationale for such access in the security plan for the information system.	The organization:  (a)   Authorizes the execution of privileged commands and access to security-relevant information via remote access only for [Assignment: organization-defined needs]; and  (b)   Documents the rationale for such access in the security plan for the information system.
0	The allocation and use of privileges to information systems and services shall be restricted and controlled. Special attention shall be given to the allocation of privileged access rights, which allow users to override system controls.	Roles and responsibilities for performing employment termination or change in employment procedures shall be assigned, documented, and communicated.
1	The organization coordinates incident response testing with organizational elements responsible for related plans.	Business continuity and security incident response plans shall be subject to testing at planned intervals or upon significant organizational or environmental changes. Incident response plans shall involve impacted customers (tenant) and other business relationships that represent critical intra-supply chain business process dependencies.
1	All relevant legislative statutory, regulatory, contractual requirements and the organization's approach to meet these requirements shall be explicitly identified, documented and kept up to date for each information system and the organization.	Mobile devices connecting to corporate networks, or storing and accessing company information, shall allow for remote software version/patch validation. All mobile devices shall have the latest available security-related patches installed upon general release by the device manufacturer or carrier and authorized IT personnel shall be able to perform these updates remotely.
0	Use appropriate facility entry controls to limit and monitor physical access to systems in the cardholder data environment.	To reduce the risks from environmental threats, hazards, and opportunities for unauthorized access, equipment shall be kept away from locations subject to high probability environmental risks and supplemented by redundant equipment located at a reasonable distance.
0	o How are the detection capabilities structured? o How can the cloud customer report anomalies and security events to the provider? o What facilities does the provider allow for customer-selected third party RTSM services to intervene in their systems (where appropriate) or to co-ordinate incident response capabilities with the cloud provider?         o Is there a real time security monitoring (RTSM) service in place? Is the service outsourced? What kind of parameters and services are monitored? o Do you provide (upon request) a periodical report on security incidents (eg,. according to the ITIL definition)? o For how long are the security logs retained? Are those logs securely stored? Who has access to the logs? o Is it possible for the customer to build a HIPS/HIDS in the virtual machine image? Is it possible to integrate the information collected by the intrusion detection and prevention systems of the customer into the RTSM service of the cloud provider or that of a third party? 	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for defining allowances and conditions for permitting usage of organizationally-owned or managed user end-point devices (e.g., issued workstations, laptops, and mobile devices) and IT infrastructure network and systems components. Additionally, defining allowances and conditions to permit usage of personal mobile devices and associated applications with access to corporate resources (i.e., BYOD) shall be considered and incorporated as appropriate.
0	Deploy anti-virus software on all systems commonly affected by malicious software (particularly personal computers and servers).	Business continuity and security incident response plans shall be subject to testing at planned intervals or upon significant organizational or environmental changes. Incident response plans shall involve impacted customers (tenant) and other business relationships that represent critical intra-supply chain business process dependencies.
0	The information system uniquely identifies and authenticates organizational users (or processes acting on behalf of organizational users).	A reliable and mutually agreed upon external time source shall be used to synchronize the system clocks of all relevant information processing systems to facilitate tracing and reconstitution of activity timelines.
1	Records shall be protected from loss, destruction, falsification, unauthorized access and unauthorized release, in accordance with legislator^ regulatory, contractual and business requirements.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for the use of encryption protocols for protection of sensitive data in storage (e.g., file servers, databases, and end-user workstations), data in use (memory), and data in transmission (e.g., system interfaces, over public networks, and electronic messaging) as per applicable legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations.
1	Managers shall regularly review the compliance of information processing and procedures within their area of responsibility with the appropriate security policies, standards and any other security requirements.	The mobile device policy shall require the use of encryption either for the entire device or for data identified as sensitive on all mobile devices, and shall be enforced through technology controls.
0	Managers shall regularly review the compliance of information processing and procedures within their area of responsibility with the appropriate security policies, standards and any other security requirements.	Policies and procedures shall be established to require that unattended workspaces do not have openly visible (e.g., on a desktop) sensitive documents and user computing sessions are disabled after an established period of inactivity.
0	• How will the data provided by the customer and the customer’s customers, be collected, processed and transferred?	Mechanisms shall be put in place to monitor and quantify the types, volumes, and costs of information security incidents.
0	• Where will the data be physically located?	The provider shall use secure (e.g., non-clear text and authenticated) standardized network protocols for the import and export of data and to manage the service, and shall make available a document to consumers (tenants) detailing the relevant interoperability and portability standards that are involved.
1	The organization:  a. Monitors physical access to the facility where the information system resides to detect and respond to physical security incidents;  b. Reviews physical access logs [Assignment: organization-defined frequency] and upon occurrence of [Assignment: organization-defined events or potential indications of events]; and  c. Coordinates results of reviews and investigations with the organizational incident response capability.	Physical security perimeters (e.g., fences, walls, barriers, guards, gates, electronic surveillance, physical authentication mechanisms, reception desks, and security patrols) shall be implemented to safeguard sensitive data and information systems.
1	• Do you only allow authorised maintenance or repair staff onto the site? o How do you check their identity? 	Ingress and egress to secure areas shall be constrained and monitored by physical access control mechanisms to ensure that only authorized personnel are allowed access.
0	All information and assets associated with information processing systems shall be owned by a designated part of the organization.	Network architecture diagrams shall clearly identify high-risk environments and data flows that may have legal compliance impacts. Technical measures shall be implemented and shall apply defense-in-depth techniques (e.g., deep packet analysis, traffic throttling, and black-holing) for detection and timely response to network-based attacks associated with anomalous ingress or egress traffic patterns (e.g., MAC spoofing and ARP poisoning attacks) and/or distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) attacks.
1	Limit access to system components and cardholder data to only those individuals whose job requires such access.	Physical protection against damage from natural causes and disasters, as well as deliberate attacks, including fire, flood, atmospheric electrical discharge, solar induced geomagnetic storm, wind, earthquake, tsunami, explosion, nuclear accident, volcanic activity, biological hazard, civil unrest, mudslide, tectonic activity, and other forms of natural or man-made disaster shall be anticipated, designed, and have countermeasures applied.
1	Ensure network engineers use a dedicated machine for all administrative tasks or tasks requiring elevated access. This machine shall be segmented from the organization’s primary network and not be allowed Internet access. This machine shall not be used for reading email, composing documents, or surfing the Internet.	Policies and procedures shall be established to store and manage identity information about every person who accesses IT infrastructure and to determine their level of access. Policies shall also be developed to control access to network resources based on user identity.
1	The information system uniquely identifies and authenticates organizational users (or processes acting on behalf of organizational users).	Policies and procedures are established for permissible storage and access of identities used for authentication to ensure identities are only accessible based on rules of least privilege and replication limitation only to users explicitly defined as business necessary.
0	For wireless environments connected to the cardholder data environment or transmitting cardholder data, change ALL wireless vendor defaults at installation, including but not limited to default wireless encryption keys, passwords, and SNMP community strings.	Managers are responsible for maintaining awareness of, and complying with, security policies, procedures, and standards that are relevant to their area of responsibility.
0	A policy on the use of cryptographic controls for protection of information shall be developed and implemented.	Ingress and egress to secure areas shall be constrained and monitored by physical access control mechanisms to ensure that only authorized personnel are allowed access.
0	Ensure that only network ports, protocols, and services listening on a system with validated business needs are running on each system.	Points of contact for applicable regulation authorities, national and local law enforcement, and other legal jurisdictional authorities shall be maintained and regularly updated (e.g., change in impacted-scope and/or a change in any compliance obligation) to ensure direct compliance liaisons have been established and to be prepared for a forensic investigation requiring rapid engagement with law enforcement.
0	Retain audit trail history for at least one year, with a minimum of three months immediately available for analysis (for example, online, archived, or restorable from backup).	Upon termination of workforce personnel and/or expiration of external business relationships, all organizationally-owned assets shall be returned within an established period.
1	The organization:  (a)   Implements procedures for the use of maintenance personnel that lack appropriate security clearances or are not U.S. citizens, that include the following requirements:     (1)   Maintenance personnel who do not have needed access authorizations, clearances, or formal access approvals are escorted and supervised during the performance of maintenance and diagnostic activities on the information system by approved organizational personnel who are fully cleared, have appropriate access authorizations, and are technically qualified;    (2)   Prior to initiating maintenance or diagnostic activities by personnel who do not have needed access authorizations, clearances or formal access approvals, all volatile information storage components within the information system are sanitized and all nonvolatile storage media are removed or physically disconnected from the system and secured; and  (b)   Develops and implements alternate security safeguards in the event an information system component cannot be sanitized, removed, or disconnected from the system.	Physical access to information assets and functions by users and support personnel shall be restricted.
0	Managers shall regularly review the compliance of information processing and procedures within their area of responsibility with the appropriate security policies, standards and any other security requirements.	All data shall be designated with stewardship, with assigned responsibilities defined, documented, and communicated.
1	Store cryptographic keys in the fewest possible locations.	External business partners shall adhere to the same policies and procedures for change management, release, and testing as internal developers within the organization (e.g., ITIL service management processes).
1	Assets associated with information and information processing facilities shall be identified and an inventory of these assets shall be drawn up and maintained.	Upon termination of workforce personnel and/or expiration of external business relationships, all organizationally-owned assets shall be returned within an established period.
0	The information system automatically audits account creation, modification, enabling, disabling, and removal actions, and notifies [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles].	Authorization must be obtained prior to relocation or transfer of hardware, software, or data to an offsite premises.
0	Privacy and protection of personally identifiable information shall be ensured as required in relevant legislation and regulation where applicable.	Upon termination of workforce personnel and/or expiration of external business relationships, all organizationally-owned assets shall be returned within an established period.
0	• Are any SLA provisions guaranteed by outsourcers lower than the SLAs you offer to your customers? If not, do you have supplier redundancy in place?	The BYOD policy and supporting awareness training clearly states the approved applications, application stores, and application extensions and plugins that may be used for BYOD usage.
1	For wireless environments connected to the cardholder data environment or transmitting cardholder data, change ALL wireless vendor defaults at installation, including but not limited to default wireless encryption keys, passwords, and SNMP community strings.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for the use of encryption protocols for protection of sensitive data in storage (e.g., file servers, databases, and end-user workstations), data in use (memory), and data in transmission (e.g., system interfaces, over public networks, and electronic messaging) as per applicable legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations.
0	Agreements shall address the secure transfer of business information between the organization and external parties.	Assets must be classified in terms of business criticality, service-level expectations, and operational continuity requirements. A complete inventory of business-critical assets located at all sites and/or geographical locations and their usage over time shall be maintained and updated regularly, and assigned ownership by defined roles and responsibilities.
0	Change control procedures must include the following:	The provider shall use open and published APIs to ensure support for interoperability between components and to facilitate migrating applications.
0	Physically secure all media.	Timely de-provisioning (revocation or modification) of user access to data and organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) applications, infrastructure systems, and network components, shall be implemented as per established policies and procedures and based on user's change in status (e.g., termination of employment or other business relationship, job change, or transfer). Upon request, provider shall inform customer (tenant) of these changes, especially if customer (tenant) data is used as part the service and/or customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of control.
1	Information systems shall be regularly reviewed for compliance with the organization's information security policies and standards.	Policies, procedures, and mutually-agreed upon provisions and/or terms shall be established to satisfy customer (tenant) requirements for service-to-service application (API) and information processing interoperability, and portability for application development and information exchange, usage, and integrity persistence.
0	Establish, publish, maintain, and disseminate a security policy.	The provider shall have a documented mobile device policy that includes a documented definition for mobile devices and the acceptable usage and requirements for all mobile devices. The provider shall post and communicate the policy and requirements through the company's security awareness and training program.
0	Policies and procedures shall be developed and implemented to protect information associated with the interconnection of business information systems.	Policies and procedures shall be developed and implemented to protect information associated with the interconnection of business information systems.
0	Change user passwords/passphrases at least once every 90 days.	Policies, procedures, and mutually-agreed upon provisions and/or terms shall be established to satisfy customer (tenant) requirements for service-to-service application (API) and information processing interoperability, and portability for application development and information exchange, usage, and integrity persistence.
0	• How are the most critical decisions (e.g., simultaneous de-provisioning of large resource blocks) authorised (single or dual, and by which roles within the organisation)?	Information security policies and procedures shall be established and made readily available for review by all impacted personnel and external business relationships. Information security policies must be authorized by the organization's business leadership (or other accountable business role or function) and supported by a strategic business plan and an information security management program inclusive of defined information security roles and responsibilities for business leadership.
1	Configure monitoring systems to record network packets passing through the boundary at each of the organization’s network boundaries.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to protect wireless network environments, including the following:  • Perimeter firewalls implemented and configured to restrict unauthorized traffic  • Security settings enabled with strong encryption for authentication and transmission, replacing vendor default settings (e.g., encryption keys, passwords, and SNMP community strings)  • User access to wireless network devices restricted to authorized personnel  • The capability to detect the presence of unauthorized (rogue) wireless network devices for a timely disconnect from the network
0	Leverage the Advanced Encryption Standard (AES) to encrypt wireless data in transit.	The BYOD policy shall define the device and eligibility requirements to allow for BYOD usage.
1	The organization:  a. Enforces physical access authorizations at [Assignment: organization-defined entry/exit points to the facility where the information system resides] by;    1. Verifying individual access authorizations before granting access to the facility; and    2. Controlling ingress/egress to the facility using [Selection (one or more): [Assignment: organization-defined physical access control systems/devices]; guards];  b. Maintains physical access audit logs for [Assignment: organization-defined entry/exit points];  c. Provides [Assignment: organization-defined security safeguards] to control access to areas within the facility officially designated as publicly accessible;  d. Escorts visitors and monitors visitor activity [Assignment: organization-defined circumstances requiring visitor escorts and monitoring];  e. Secures keys, combinations, and other physical access devices;  f. Inventories [Assignment: organization-defined physical access devices] every [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and  g. Changes combinations and keys [Assignment: organization-defined frequency] and/or when keys are lost, combinations are compromised, or individuals are transferred or terminated.	Ingress and egress points such as service areas and other points where unauthorized personnel may enter the premises shall be monitored, controlled and, if possible, isolated from data storage and processing facilities to prevent unauthorized data corruption, compromise, and loss.
1	The organization:  a. Develops, documents, and disseminates to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]:    1. A system maintenance policy that addresses purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment, coordination among organizational entities, and compliance; and    2. Procedures to facilitate the implementation of the system maintenance policy and associated system maintenance controls; and  b. Reviews and updates the current:    1. System maintenance policy [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and    2. System maintenance procedures [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for appropriate IT governance and service management to ensure appropriate planning, delivery, and support of the organization's IT capabilities supporting business functions, workforce, and/or customers based on industry acceptable standards (i.e., ITIL v4 and COBIT 5). Additionally, policies and procedures shall include defined roles and responsibilities supported by regular workforce training.
1	For personnel accessing cardholder data via remote-access technologies, prohibit the copying, moving, and storage of cardholder data onto local hard drives and removable electronic media, unless explicitly authorized for a defined business need.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to inventory, document, and maintain data flows for data that is resident (permanently or temporarily) within the service's geographically distributed (physical and virtual) applications and infrastructure network and systems components and/or shared with other third parties to ascertain any regulatory, statutory, or supply chain agreement (SLA) compliance impact, and to address any other business risks associated with the data. Upon request, provider shall inform customer (tenant) of compliance impact and risk, especially if customer data is used as part of the services.
1	Change control procedures must include the following:	Policies and procedures shall be established for managing the risks associated with applying changes to:  • Business-critical or customer (tenant)-impacting (physical and virtual) applications and system-system interface (API) designs and configurations.  • Infrastructure network and systems components. Technical measures shall be implemented to provide assurance that all changes directly correspond to a registered change request, business-critical or customer (tenant), and/or authorization by, the customer (tenant) as per agreement (SLA) prior to deployment.
1	An access control policy shall be established, documented and reviewed based on business and information security requirements.	Data input and output integrity routines (i.e., reconciliation and edit checks) shall be implemented for application interfaces and databases to prevent manual or systematic processing errors, corruption of data, or misuse.
0	Assets associated with information and information processing facilities shall be identified and an inventory of these assets shall be drawn up and maintained.	Prior to granting customers access to data, assets, and information systems, identified security, contractual, and regulatory requirements for customer access shall be addressed.
0	Managers shall regularly review the compliance of information processing and procedures within their area of responsibility with the appropriate security policies, standards and any other security requirements.	All personnel shall be made aware of their roles and responsibilities for:  • Maintaining awareness and compliance with established policies and procedures and applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance obligations.  • Maintaining a safe and secure working environment
1	Identity or name of affected data, system component, or resource.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to restrict the installation of unauthorized software on organizationally-owned or managed user end-point devices (e.g., issued workstations, laptops, and mobile devices) and IT infrastructure network and systems components.
0	Install perimeter firewalls between all wireless networks and the cardholder data environment, and configure these firewalls to deny or, if traffic is necessary for business purposes, permit only authorized traffic between the wireless environment and the cardholder data environment.	Upon termination of workforce personnel and/or expiration of external business relationships, all organizationally-owned assets shall be returned within an established period.
0	Additional requirement for service providers only: If segmentation is used, confirm PCI DSS scope by performing penetration testing on segmentation controls at least every six months and after any changes to segmentation controls/methods.	Policies and procedures shall be established to store and manage identity information about every person who accesses IT infrastructure and to determine their level of access. Policies shall also be developed to control access to network resources based on user identity.
0	The organization establishes alternate telecommunications services including necessary agreements to permit the resumption of [Assignment: organization-defined information system operations] for essential missions and business functions within [Assignment: organization- defined time period] when the primary telecommunications capabilities are unavailable at either the primary or alternate processing or storage sites.	A formal disciplinary or sanction policy shall be established for employees who have violated security policies and procedures. Employees shall be made aware of what action might be taken in the event of a violation, and disciplinary measures must be stated in the policies and procedures.
0	The organization requires the developer of the information system, system component, or information system service to provide a description of the functional properties of the security controls to be employed.	Providers shall inspect, account for, and work with their cloud supply-chain partners to correct data quality errors and associated risks. Providers shall design and implement controls to mitigate and contain data security risks through proper separation of duties, role-based access, and least-privilege access for all personnel within their supply chain.
0	A policy on the use of cryptographic controls for protection of information shall be developed and implemented.	An inventory of all mobile devices used to store and access company data shall be kept and maintained. All changes to the status of these devices (i.e., operating system and patch levels, lost or decommissioned status, and to whom the device is assigned or approved for usage (BYOD)) will be included for each device in the inventory.
0	The organization develops, documents, and implements a configuration management plan for the information system that:  a. Addresses roles, responsibilities, and configuration management processes and procedures;  b. Establishes a process for identifying configuration items throughout the system development life cycle and for managing the configuration of the configuration items;  c. Defines the configuration items for the information system and places the configuration items under configuration management; and  d. Protects the configuration management plan from unauthorized disclosure and modification.	Third-party service providers shall demonstrate compliance with information security and confidentiality, access control, service definitions, and delivery level agreements included in third-party contracts. Third-party reports, records, and services shall undergo audit and review at least annually to govern and maintain compliance with the service delivery agreements.
1	Prohibit direct public access between the Internet and any system component in the cardholder data environment.	Multi-tenant organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) applications, and infrastructure system and network components, shall be designed, developed, deployed, and configured such that provider and customer (tenant) user access is appropriately segmented from other tenant users, based on the following considerations:  • Established policies and procedures  • Isolation of business critical assets and/or sensitive user data, and sessions that mandate stronger internal controls and high levels of assurance  • Compliance with legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations
0	Managers shall regularly review the compliance of information processing and procedures within their area of responsibility with the appropriate security policies, standards and any other security requirements.	There shall be a defined and documented method for determining the impact of any disruption to the organization (cloud provider, cloud consumer) that must incorporate the following:  • Identify critical products and services  • Identify all dependencies, including processes, applications, business partners, and third party service providers  • Understand threats to critical products and services  • Determine impacts resulting from planned or unplanned disruptions and how these vary over time  • Establish the maximum tolerable period for disruption  • Establish priorities for recovery  • Establish recovery time objectives for resumption of critical products and services within their maximum tolerable period of disruption  • Estimate the resources required for resumption
0	The information system automatically updates spam protection mechanisms. 	The information system automatically updates spam protection mechanisms. 
1	The organization:  a. Develops, documents, and disseminates to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]:    1. A contingency planning policy that addresses purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment, coordination among organizational entities, and compliance; and    2. Procedures to facilitate the implementation of the contingency planning policy and associated contingency planning controls; and  b. Reviews and updates the current:    1. Contingency planning policy [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and    2. Contingency planning procedures [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	Policies and procedures shall be established and maintained in support of data security to include (confidentiality, integrity, and availability) across multiple system interfaces, jurisdictions, and business functions to prevent improper disclosure, alteration, or destruction.
0	An access control policy shall be established, documented and reviewed based on business and information security requirements.	Roles and responsibilities for performing employment termination or change in employment procedures shall be assigned, documented, and communicated.
0	The organization:  a. Obtains administrator documentation for the information system, system component, or information system service that describes:    1. Secure configuration, installation, and operation of the system, component, or service;    2. Effective use and maintenance of security functions/mechanisms; and    3. Known vulnerabilities regarding configuration and use of administrative (i.e., privileged) functions;  b. Obtains user documentation for the information system, system component, or information system service that describes:    1. User-accessible security functions/mechanisms and how to effectively use those security functions/mechanisms;    2. Methods for user interaction, which enables individuals to use the system, component, or service in a more secure manner; and    3. User responsibilities in maintaining the security of the system, component, or service;  c. Documents attempts to obtain information system, system component, or information system service documentation when such documentation is either unavailable or nonexistent and [Assignment: organization-defined actions] in response;  d. Protects documentation as required, in accordance with the risk management strategy; and e. Distributes documentation to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]. 	Internal corporate or customer (tenant) user account credentials shall be restricted as per the following, ensuring appropriate identity, entitlement, and access management and in accordance with established policies and procedures:  • Identity trust verification and service-to-service application (API) and information processing interoperability (e.g., SSO and Federation)  • Account credential lifecycle management from instantiation through revocation  • Account credential and/or identity store minimization or re-use when feasible  • Adherence to industry acceptable and/or regulatory compliant authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules (e.g., strong/multi-factor, expireable, non-shared authentication secrets)
0	The information system backs up audit records [Assignment: organization-defined frequency] onto a physically different system or system component than the system or component being audited.	Upon termination of workforce personnel and/or expiration of external business relationships, all organizationally-owned assets shall be returned within an established period.
0	The organization employs the principle of least privilege, allowing only authorized accesses for users (or processes acting on behalf of users) which are necessary to accomplish assigned tasks in accordance with organizational missions and business functions.	Policies, procedures, and mutually-agreed upon provisions and/or terms shall be established to satisfy customer (tenant) requirements for service-to-service application (API) and information processing interoperability, and portability for application development and information exchange, usage, and integrity persistence.
1	Detection, prevention and recovery controls to protect against malware shall be implemented, combined with appropriate user awareness.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to prevent the execution of unauthorized mobile code, defined as software transferred between systems over a trusted or untrusted network and executed on a local system without explicit installation or execution by the recipient, on organizationally-owned or managed user end-point devices (e.g., issued workstations, laptops, and mobile devices) and IT infrastructure network and systems components.
1	Administer user accounts, including additions, deletions, and modifications.	User access policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for ensuring appropriate identity, entitlement, and access management for all internal corporate and customer (tenant) users with access to data and organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) application interfaces and infrastructure network and systems components. These policies, procedures, processes, and measures must incorporate the following:  • Procedures, supporting roles, and responsibilities for provisioning and de-provisioning user account entitlements following the rule of least privilege based on job function (e.g., internal employee and contingent staff personnel changes, customer-controlled access, suppliers' business relationships, or other third-party business relationships)  • Business case considerations for higher levels of assurance and multi-factor authentication secrets (e.g., management interfaces, key generation, remote access, segregation of duties, emergency access, large-scale provisioning or geographically-distributed deployments, and personnel redundancy for critical systems)  • Access segmentation to sessions and data in multi-tenant architectures by any third party (e.g., provider and/or other customer (tenant))  • Identity trust verification and service-to-service application (API) and information processing interoperability (e.g., SSO and federation)  • Account credential lifecycle management from instantiation through revocation  • Account credential and/or identity store minimization or re-use when feasible  • Authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules for access to data and sessions (e.g., encryption and strong/multi-factor, expireable, non-shared authentication secrets)  • Permissions and supporting capabilities for customer (tenant) controls over authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules for access to data and sessions  • Adherence to applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance requirements
1	Ensure that only authorized scripting languages are able to run in all web browsers and email clients.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to restrict the installation of unauthorized software on organizationally-owned or managed user end-point devices (e.g., issued workstations, laptops, and mobile devices) and IT infrastructure network and systems components.
0	Utilize a risk-rating process to prioritize the remediation of discovered vulnerabilities.	Higher levels of assurance are required for protection, retention, and lifecycle management of audit logs, adhering to applicable legal, statutory or regulatory compliance obligations and providing unique user access accountability to detect potentially suspicious network behaviors and/or file integrity anomalies, and to support forensic investigative capabilities in the event of a security breach.
0	The organization monitors physical intrusion alarms and surveillance equipment. 	Supply chain agreements (e.g., SLAs) between providers and customers (tenants) shall incorporate at least the following mutually-agreed upon provisions and/or terms:  • Scope of business relationship and services offered (e.g., customer (tenant) data acquisition, exchange and usage, feature sets and functionality, personnel and infrastructure network and systems components for service delivery and support, roles and responsibilities of provider and customer (tenant) and any subcontracted or outsourced business relationships, physical geographical location of hosted services, and any known regulatory compliance considerations)  • Information security requirements, provider and customer (tenant) primary points of contact for the duration of the business relationship, and references to detailed supporting and relevant business processes and technical measures implemented to enable effectively governance, risk management, assurance and legal, statutory and regulatory compliance obligations by all impacted business relationships  • Notification and/or pre-authorization of any changes controlled by the provider with customer (tenant) impacts  • Timely notification of a security incident (or confirmed breach) to all customers (tenants) and other business relationships impacted (i.e., up- and down-stream impacted supply chain)  • Assessment and independent verification of compliance with agreement provisions and/or terms (e.g., industry-acceptable certification, attestation audit report, or equivalent forms of assurance) without posing an unacceptable business risk of exposure to the organization being assessed  • Expiration of the business relationship and treatment of customer (tenant) data impacted  • Customer (tenant) service-to-service application (API) and data interoperability and portability requirements for application development and information exchange, usage, and integrity persistence
1	The organization permits authorized individuals to use an external information system to access the information system or to process, store, or transmit organization-controlled information only when the organization:  (a)   Verifies the implementation of required security controls on the external system as specified in the organization’s information security policy and security plan; or  (b)   Retains approved information system connection or processing agreements with the organizational entity hosting the external information system.	The identification, assessment, and prioritization of risks posed by business processes requiring third-party access to the organization's information systems and data shall be followed by coordinated application of resources to minimize, monitor, and measure likelihood and impact of unauthorized or inappropriate access. Compensating controls derived from the risk analysis shall be implemented prior to provisioning access.
0	Use only standardized and extensively reviewed encryption algorithms.	Ingress and egress points such as service areas and other points where unauthorized personnel may enter the premises shall be monitored, controlled and, if possible, isolated from data storage and processing facilities to prevent unauthorized data corruption, compromise, and loss.
0	A formal policy shall be in place, and appropriate security measures shall be adopted to protect against the risks of using mobile computing and communication devices.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to triage security-related events and ensure timely and thorough incident management, as per established IT service management policies and procedures.
0	Use client certificates to authenticate hardware assets connecting to the organization’s trusted network.	Use client certificates to authenticate hardware assets connecting to the organization’s trusted network.
1	Use appropriate facility entry controls to limit and monitor physical access to systems in the cardholder data environment.	Physical protection against damage from natural causes and disasters, as well as deliberate attacks, including fire, flood, atmospheric electrical discharge, solar induced geomagnetic storm, wind, earthquake, tsunami, explosion, nuclear accident, volcanic activity, biological hazard, civil unrest, mudslide, tectonic activity, and other forms of natural or man-made disaster shall be anticipated, designed, and have countermeasures applied.
1	Subscribe to URL categorization services to ensure that they are up-to-date with the most recent website category definitions available. Uncategorized sites shall be blocked by default.	Secured and encrypted communication channels shall be used when migrating physical servers, applications, or data to virtualized servers and, where possible, shall use a network segregated from production-level networks for such migrations.
1	An access control policy shall be established, documented and reviewed based on business and information security requirements.	Timely de-provisioning (revocation or modification) of user access to data and organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) applications, infrastructure systems, and network components, shall be implemented as per established policies and procedures and based on user's change in status (e.g., termination of employment or other business relationship, job change, or transfer). Upon request, provider shall inform customer (tenant) of these changes, especially if customer (tenant) data is used as part the service and/or customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of control.
0	The software inventory system should be tied into the hardware asset inventory so all devices and associated software are tracked from a single location.	Mobile devices connecting to corporate networks, or storing and accessing company information, shall allow for remote software version/patch validation. All mobile devices shall have the latest available security-related patches installed upon general release by the device manufacturer or carrier and authorized IT personnel shall be able to perform these updates remotely.
0	The allocation and use of privileged access rights shall be restricted and controlled.	Employment agreements shall incorporate provisions and/or terms for adherence to established information governance and security policies and must be signed by newly hired or on-boarded workforce personnel (e.g., full or part-time employee or contingent staff) prior to granting workforce personnel user access to corporate facilities, resources, and assets.
0	The organization establishes terms and conditions, consistent with any trust relationships established with other organizations owning, operating, and/or maintaining external information systems, allowing authorized individuals to:  a. Access the information system from external information systems; and  b. Process, store, or transmit organization-controlled information using external information systems.	Data related to electronic commerce (ecommerce) that traverses public networks shall be appropriately classified and protected from fraudulent activity, unauthorized disclosure, or modification in such a manner to prevent contract dispute and compromise of data.
1	Do not use group, shared, or generic IDs, passwords, or other authentication methods as follows:  Generic user IDs are disabled or removed.  Shared user IDs do not exist for system administration and other critical functions.  Shared and generic user IDs are not used to administer any system components.PCI DSS Requirements	Policies and procedures shall be established and maintained in support of data security to include (confidentiality, integrity, and availability) across multiple system interfaces, jurisdictions, and business functions to prevent improper disclosure, alteration, or destruction.
0	： To minimise the impact of audit activities on operational systems.	： To minimise the impact of audit activities on operational systems.
1	Visitors are identified and given a badge or other identification that expires and that visibly distinguishes the visitors from onsite personnel.	Physical security perimeters (e.g., fences, walls, barriers, guards, gates, electronic surveillance, physical authentication mechanisms, reception desks, and security patrols) shall be implemented to safeguard sensitive data and information systems.
1	Implement processes to test for the presence of wireless access points (802.11), and detect and identify all authorized and unauthorized wireless access points on a quarterly basis.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to restrict the installation of unauthorized software on organizationally-owned or managed user end-point devices (e.g., issued workstations, laptops, and mobile devices) and IT infrastructure network and systems components.
1	All relevant legislative statutory, regulatory, contractual requirements and the organization's approach to meet these requirements shall be explicitly identified, documented and kept up to date for each information system and the organization.	An inventory of all mobile devices used to store and access company data shall be kept and maintained. All changes to the status of these devices (i.e., operating system and patch levels, lost or decommissioned status, and to whom the device is assigned or approved for usage (BYOD)) will be included for each device in the inventory.
1	When operating platforms are changed, business critical applications shall be reviewed and tested to ensure there is no adverse impact on organizational operations or security.	Organizations shall follow a defined quality change control and testing process (e.g., ITIL Service Management) with established baselines, testing, and release standards that focus on system availability, confidentiality, and integrity of systems and services.
1	The organization:  (a)   Implements a managed interface for each external telecommunication service;   (b)   Establishes a traffic flow policy for each managed interface;  (c)   Protects the confidentiality and integrity of the information being transmitted across each interface;  (d)   Documents each exception to the traffic flow policy with a supporting mission/business need and duration of that need; and  (e)   Reviews exceptions to the traffic flow policy [Assignment: organization-defined frequency] and removes exceptions that are no longer supported by an explicit mission/business need.	Network environments and virtual instances shall be designed and configured to restrict and monitor traffic between trusted and untrusted connections. These configurations shall be reviewed at least annually, and supported by a documented justification for use for all allowed services, protocols, ports, and by compensating controls.
0	Routing controls shall be implemented for networks to ensure that computer connections and information flows do not breach the access control policy of the business applications.	Keys must have identifiable owners (binding keys to identities) and there shall be key management policies.
0	Access to program source code shall be restricted.	Access to, and use of, audit tools that interact with the organization's information systems shall be appropriately segregated and access restricted to prevent inappropriate disclosure and tampering of log data.
0	Ensure that security policies and operational procedures for restricting access to cardholder data are documented, in use, and known to all affected parties.	Proper forensic procedures, including chain of custody, are required for the presentation of evidence to support potential legal action subject to the relevant jurisdiction after an information security incident. Upon notification, customers and/or other external business partners impacted by a security breach shall be given the opportunity to participate as is legally permissible in the forensic investigation.
1	All information security responsibilities shall be defined and allocated.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for appropriate IT governance and service management to ensure appropriate planning, delivery, and support of the organization's IT capabilities supporting business functions, workforce, and/or customers based on industry acceptable standards (i.e., ITIL v4 and COBIT 5). Additionally, policies and procedures shall include defined roles and responsibilities supported by regular workforce training.
0	Log all URL requests from each of the organization’s systems, whether on-site or a mobile device, in order to identify potentially malicious activity and assist incident handlers with identifying potentially compromised systems.	To reduce the risks from environmental threats, hazards, and opportunities for unauthorized access, equipment shall be kept away from locations subject to high probability environmental risks and supplemented by redundant equipment located at a reasonable distance.
1	Develop usage policies for critical technologies and define proper use of these technologies.	Information system documentation (e.g., administrator and user guides, and architecture diagrams) shall be made available to authorized personnel to ensure the following:  • Configuring, installing, and operating the information system  • Effectively using the system’s security features
1	Changes to systems within the development lifecycle shall be controlled by the use of formal change control procedures.	Policies and procedures shall be established for managing the risks associated with applying changes to:  • Business-critical or customer (tenant)-impacting (physical and virtual) applications and system-system interface (API) designs and configurations.  • Infrastructure network and systems components. Technical measures shall be implemented to provide assurance that all changes directly correspond to a registered change request, business-critical or customer (tenant), and/or authorization by, the customer (tenant) as per agreement (SLA) prior to deployment.
0	Management shall require all employees and contractors to apply information security in accordance with the established policies and procedures of the organization.	BYOD and/or company-owned devices are configured to require an automatic lockout screen, and the requirement shall be enforced through technical controls.
1	Users shall  be required to follow the organization's practices in the  use of secret authentication information.	Policies and procedures are established for permissible storage and access of identities used for authentication to ensure identities are only accessible based on rules of least privilege and replication limitation only to users explicitly defined as business necessary.
0	The organization employs automated mechanisms to increase the availability of incident response- related information and support.	The organization employs automated mechanisms to increase the availability of incident response- related information and support.
0	Perform authenticated vulnerability scanning with agents running locally on each system or with remote scanners that are configured with elevated rights on the system being tested.	Perform authenticated vulnerability scanning with agents running locally on each system or with remote scanners that are configured with elevated rights on the system being tested.
1	Implement physical and/or logical controls to restrict access to publicly accessible network jacks.	Physical security perimeters (e.g., fences, walls, barriers, guards, gates, electronic surveillance, physical authentication mechanisms, reception desks, and security patrols) shall be implemented to safeguard sensitive data and information systems.
1	The organization:  a. Develops, documents, and disseminates to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]:    1. An incident response policy that addresses purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment, coordination among organizational entities, and compliance; and    2. Procedures to facilitate the implementation of the incident response policy and associated incident response controls; and  b. Reviews and updates the current:    1. Incident response policy [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and    2. Incident response procedures [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to triage security-related events and ensure timely and thorough incident management, as per established IT service management policies and procedures.
0	The information system routes [Assignment: organization-defined internal communications traffic] to [Assignment: organization-defined external networks] through authenticated proxy servers at managed interfaces.	The information system routes [Assignment: organization-defined internal communications traffic] to [Assignment: organization-defined external networks] through authenticated proxy servers at managed interfaces.
1	Current network diagram that identifies all connections between the cardholder data environment and other networks, including any wireless networks	Baseline security requirements shall be established for developed or acquired, organizationally-owned or managed, physical or virtual, applications and infrastructure system and network components that comply with applicable legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations. Deviations from standard baseline configurations must be authorized following change management policies and procedures prior to deployment, provisioning, or use. Compliance with security baseline requirements must be reassessed at least annually unless an alternate frequency has been established and authorized based on business needs.
1	Origination of event	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to restrict the installation of unauthorized software on organizationally-owned or managed user end-point devices (e.g., issued workstations, laptops, and mobile devices) and IT infrastructure network and systems components.
0	Security shall be applied to offsite assets taking into account the different risks of working outside the organization's premises.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to prevent the execution of unauthorized mobile code, defined as software transferred between systems over a trusted or untrusted network and executed on a local system without explicit installation or execution by the recipient, on organizationally-owned or managed user end-point devices (e.g., issued workstations, laptops, and mobile devices) and IT infrastructure network and systems components.
1	Uninstall or disable any unauthorized browser or email client plugins or add-on applications.	The provider shall use open and published APIs to ensure support for interoperability between components and to facilitate migrating applications.
1	Do not use group, shared, or generic IDs, passwords, or other authentication methods as follows:  Generic user IDs are disabled or removed.  Shared user IDs do not exist for system administration and other critical functions.  Shared and generic user IDs are not used to administer any system components.PCI DSS Requirements	Access to, and use of, audit tools that interact with the organization's information systems shall be appropriately segregated and access restricted to prevent inappropriate disclosure and tampering of log data.
0	Secure all individual non-console administrative access and all remote access to the CDE using multi-factor authentication.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for defining and adhering to the retention period of any critical asset as per established policies and procedures, as well as applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance obligations. Backup and recovery measures shall be incorporated as part of business continuity planning and tested accordingly for effectiveness.
0	A formal policy shall be in place, and appropriate security measures shall be adopted to protect against the risks of using mobile computing and communication devices.	The company shall have a documented application validation process to test for mobile device, operating system, and application compatibility issues.
0	The organization:  a. Conducts an assessment of risk, including the likelihood and magnitude of harm, from the unauthorized access, use, disclosure, disruption, modification, or destruction of the information system and the information it processes, stores, or transmits;  b. Documents risk assessment results in [Selection: security plan; risk assessment report; [Assignment: organization-defined document]];  c. Reviews risk assessment results [Assignment: organization-defined frequency];  d. Disseminates risk assessment results to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]; and  e. Updates the risk assessment [Assignment: organization-defined frequency] or whenever there are significant changes to the information system or environment of operation (including the identification of new threats and vulnerabilities), or other conditions that may impact the security state of the system.	Data related to electronic commerce (ecommerce) that traverses public networks shall be appropriately classified and protected from fraudulent activity, unauthorized disclosure, or modification in such a manner to prevent contract dispute and compromise of data.
1	• Are secure configurations deployed to only allow the execution of authorised mobile code and authorised functionality (e.g., only execute specific commands)?	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to prevent the execution of unauthorized mobile code, defined as software transferred between systems over a trusted or untrusted network and executed on a local system without explicit installation or execution by the recipient, on organizationally-owned or managed user end-point devices (e.g., issued workstations, laptops, and mobile devices) and IT infrastructure network and systems components.
0	The organization:  a. Develops, documents, and disseminates to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]:    1. A security awareness and training policy that addresses purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment, coordination among organizational entities, and compliance; and    2.  Procedures to facilitate the implementation of the security awareness and training policy and associated security awareness and training controls; and  b. Reviews and updates the current:    1. Security awareness and training policy [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and    2.  Security awareness and training procedures [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to prevent the execution of malware on organizationally-owned or managed user end-point devices (i.e., issued workstations, laptops, and mobile devices) and IT infrastructure network and systems components.
1	Enable the collection of NetFlow and logging data on all network boundary devices.	Higher levels of assurance are required for protection, retention, and lifecycle management of audit logs, adhering to applicable legal, statutory or regulatory compliance obligations and providing unique user access accountability to detect potentially suspicious network behaviors and/or file integrity anomalies, and to support forensic investigative capabilities in the event of a security breach.
0	Information systems shall be regularly reviewed for compliance with the organization's information security policies and standards.	Platform and data-appropriate encryption (e.g., AES-256) in open/validated formats and standard algorithms shall be required. Keys shall not be stored in the cloud (i.e., at the cloud provider in question), but maintained by the cloud consumer or trusted key management provider. Key management and key usage shall be separated duties.
0	To prevent unauthorized access to systems and applications.	Ingress and egress to secure areas shall be constrained and monitored by physical access control mechanisms to ensure that only authorized personnel are allowed access.
1	All relevant legislative statutory, regulatory, contractual requirements and the organization's approach to meet these requirements shall be explicitly identified, documented and kept up to date for each information system and the organization.	The BYOD policy shall define the device and eligibility requirements to allow for BYOD usage.
0	Secure areas shall be protected by appropriate entry controls to ensure that only authorized personnel are allowed access.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting processes and technical measures implemented, for timely detection of vulnerabilities within organizationally-owned or managed applications, infrastructure network and system components (e.g., network vulnerability assessment, penetration testing) to ensure the efficiency of implemented security controls. A risk-based model for prioritizing remediation of identified vulnerabilities shall be used. Changes shall be managed through a change management process for all vendor-supplied patches, configuration changes, or changes to the organization's internally developed software. Upon request, the provider informs customer (tenant) of policies and procedures and identified weaknesses especially if customer (tenant) data is used as part the service and/or customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of control.
0	The organization:  a. Requires personnel to report suspected security incidents to the organizational incident response capability within [Assignment: organization-defined time period]; and  b. Reports security incident information to [Assignment: organization-defined authorities].	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to prevent the execution of malware on organizationally-owned or managed user end-point devices (i.e., issued workstations, laptops, and mobile devices) and IT infrastructure network and systems components.
0	If manual clear-text cryptographic key-management operations are used, these operations must be managed using split knowledge and dual control.	User access policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for restricting user access as per defined segregation of duties to address business risks associated with a user-role conflict of interest.
1	• In the event of resource overload (processing, memory, storage, network)? o What information is given about the relative priority assigned to my request in the event of a failure in provisioning? o Is there a lead time on service levels and changes in requirements? 	The availability, quality, and adequate capacity and resources shall be planned, prepared, and measured to deliver the required system performance in accordance with legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations. Projections of future capacity requirements shall be made to mitigate the risk of system overload.
1	The organization:  a. Develops, documents, and disseminates to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]:    1. An identification and authentication policy that addresses purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment, coordination among organizational entities, and compliance; and    2. Procedures to facilitate the implementation of the identification and authentication policy and associated identification and authentication controls; and  b. Reviews and updates the current:    1. Identification and authentication policy [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and    2. Identification and authentication procedures [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	Password policies, applicable to mobile devices, shall be documented and enforced through technical controls on all company devices or devices approved for BYOD usage, and shall prohibit the changing of password/PIN lengths and authentication requirements.
0	Retain audit trail history for at least one year, with a minimum of three months immediately available for analysis (for example, online, archived, or restorable from backup).	A centralized, mobile device management solution shall be deployed to all mobile devices permitted to store, transmit, or process customer data.
0	Inactive sessions shall shut down after a defined period of inactivity.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to ensure the development and/or acquisition of new data, physical or virtual applications, infrastructure network, and systems components, or any corporate, operations and/or data center facilities have been pre-authorized by the organization's business leadership or other accountable business role or function.
0	The organization produces, controls, and distributes symmetric cryptographic keys using [Selection: NIST FIPS-compliant; NSA-approved] key management technology and processes. 	A reliable and mutually agreed upon external time source shall be used to synchronize the system clocks of all relevant information processing systems to facilitate tracing and reconstitution of activity timelines.
0	Verify user identity before modifying any authentication credential—for example, performing password resets, provisioning new tokens, or generating new keys.	Production and non-production environments shall be separated to prevent unauthorized access or changes to information assets. Separation of the environments may include: stateful inspection firewalls, domain/realm authentication sources, and clear segregation of duties for personnel accessing these environments as part of their job duties.
1	Subscribe to URL categorization services to ensure that they are up-to-date with the most recent website category definitions available. Uncategorized sites shall be blocked by default.	Network architecture diagrams shall clearly identify high-risk environments and data flows that may have legal compliance impacts. Technical measures shall be implemented and shall apply defense-in-depth techniques (e.g., deep packet analysis, traffic throttling, and black-holing) for detection and timely response to network-based attacks associated with anomalous ingress or egress traffic patterns (e.g., MAC spoofing and ARP poisoning attacks) and/or distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) attacks.
0	The organization produces, controls, and distributes symmetric cryptographic keys using [Selection: NIST FIPS-compliant; NSA-approved] key management technology and processes. 	The organization produces, controls, and distributes symmetric cryptographic keys using [Selection: NIST FIPS-compliant; NSA-approved] key management technology and processes. 
0	Management shall require employees, and where applicable, contractors and third-party users, to apply security in accordance with established policies and procedures of the organization.	Aligned with the enterprise-wide framework, formal risk assessments shall be performed at least annually or at planned intervals, (and in conjunction with any changes to information systems) to determine the likelihood and impact of all identified risks using qualitative and quantitative methods. The likelihood and impact associated with inherent and residual risk shall be determined independently, considering all risk categories (e.g., audit results, threat and vulnerability analysis, and regulatory compliance).
0	All relevant legislative statutory, regulatory, contractual requirements and the organization's approach to meet these requirements shall be explicitly identified, documented and kept up to date for each information system and the organization.	A consistent unified framework for business continuity planning and plan development shall be established, documented, and adopted to ensure all business continuity plans are consistent in addressing priorities for testing, maintenance, and information security requirements.  Requirements for business continuity plans include the following:  • Defined purpose and scope, aligned with relevant dependencies  • Accessible to and understood by those who will use them  • Owned by a named person(s) who is responsible for their review, update, and approval  • Defined lines of communication, roles, and responsibilities  • Detailed recovery procedures, manual work-around, and reference information  • Method for plan invocation
0	Physical and logical access to diagnostic and configuration ports shall be controlled.	Aligned with the enterprise-wide framework, formal risk assessments shall be performed at least annually or at planned intervals, (and in conjunction with any changes to information systems) to determine the likelihood and impact of all identified risks using qualitative and quantitative methods. The likelihood and impact associated with inherent and residual risk shall be determined independently, considering all risk categories (e.g., audit results, threat and vulnerability analysis, and regulatory compliance).
1	The organization establishes terms and conditions, consistent with any trust relationships established with other organizations owning, operating, and/or maintaining external information systems, allowing authorized individuals to:  a. Access the information system from external information systems; and  b. Process, store, or transmit organization-controlled information using external information systems.	The mobile device policy shall require the BYOD user to perform backups of data, prohibit the usage of unapproved application stores, and require the use of anti-malware software (where supported).
1	Review custom code prior to release to production or customers in order to identify any potential coding vulnerability (using either manual or automated processes) to include at least the following:  Code changes are reviewed by individuals other than the originating code author, and by individuals knowledgeable about code-review techniques and secure coding practices.  Code reviews ensure code is developed according to secure coding guidelines  Appropriate corrections are implemented prior to release.  Code-review results are reviewed and approved by management prior to release.(Continued on next page)PCI DSS Requirements	Independent reviews and assessments shall be performed at least annually to ensure that the organization addresses nonconformities of established policies, standards, procedures, and compliance obligations.
1	The organization produces, controls, and distributes asymmetric cryptographic keys using [Selection: NSA-approved key management technology and processes; approved PKI Class 3 certificates or prepositioned keying material; approved PKI Class 3 or Class 4 certificates and hardware security tokens that protect the user’s private key]. 	Keys must have identifiable owners (binding keys to identities) and there shall be key management policies.
0	All access to any database containing cardholder data (including access by applications, administrators, and all other users) is restricted as follows:  All user access to, user queries of, and user actions on databases are through programmatic methods.  Only database administrators have the ability to directly access or query databases.  Application IDs for database applications can only be used by the applications (and not by individual users or other non-application processes).	Password policies, applicable to mobile devices, shall be documented and enforced through technical controls on all company devices or devices approved for BYOD usage, and shall prohibit the changing of password/PIN lengths and authentication requirements.
0	Utilize centrally managed anti-malware software to continuously monitor and defend each of the organization’s workstations and servers.	Access to the organization's own developed applications, program, or object source code, or any other form of intellectual property (IP), and use of proprietary software shall be appropriately restricted following the rule of least privilege based on job function as per established user access policies and procedures.
1	Use either video cameras or access control mechanisms (or both) to monitor individual physical access to sensitive areas. Review collected data and correlate with other entries. Store for at least three months, unless otherwise restricted by law.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to restrict the installation of unauthorized software on organizationally-owned or managed user end-point devices (e.g., issued workstations, laptops, and mobile devices) and IT infrastructure network and systems components.
1	Requirements for confidentiality or non-disclosure agreements reflecting the organization's needs for the protection of information shall be identified, regularly reviewed and documented.	Employment agreements shall incorporate provisions and/or terms for adherence to established information governance and security policies and must be signed by newly hired or on-boarded workforce personnel (e.g., full or part-time employee or contingent staff) prior to granting workforce personnel user access to corporate facilities, resources, and assets.
0	The organization centrally manages malicious code protection mechanisms.	Physical protection against damage from natural causes and disasters, as well as deliberate attacks, including fire, flood, atmospheric electrical discharge, solar induced geomagnetic storm, wind, earthquake, tsunami, explosion, nuclear accident, volcanic activity, biological hazard, civil unrest, mudslide, tectonic activity, and other forms of natural or man-made disaster shall be anticipated, designed, and have countermeasures applied.
1	The organization:  a. Develops, documents, and disseminates to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]:    1. A media protection policy that addresses purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment, coordination among organizational entities, and compliance; and    2. Procedures to facilitate the implementation of the media protection policy and associated media protection controls; and  b. Reviews and updates the current:    1. Media protection policy [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and    2. Media protection procedures [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	Policies and procedures shall be established with supporting business processes and technical measures implemented for the secure disposal and complete removal of data from all storage media, ensuring data is not recoverable by any computer forensic means.
1	A visitor log is used to maintain a physical audit trail of visitor activity to the facility as well as computer rooms and data centers where cardholder data is stored or transmitted.	Physical security perimeters (e.g., fences, walls, barriers, guards, gates, electronic surveillance, physical authentication mechanisms, reception desks, and security patrols) shall be implemented to safeguard sensitive data and information systems.
0	Information systems shall be regularly reviewed for compliance with the organization's information security policies and standards.	The availability, quality, and adequate capacity and resources shall be planned, prepared, and measured to deliver the required system performance in accordance with legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations. Projections of future capacity requirements shall be made to mitigate the risk of system overload.
1	Ensure that all backups have at least one backup destination that is not continuously addressable through operating system calls.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for the use of encryption protocols for protection of sensitive data in storage (e.g., file servers, databases, and end-user workstations), data in use (memory), and data in transmission (e.g., system interfaces, over public networks, and electronic messaging) as per applicable legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations.
1	Encrypt all sensitive information at rest using a tool that requires a secondary authentication mechanism not integrated into the operating system, in order to access the information.	Policies and procedures shall be established for the management of cryptographic keys in the service's cryptosystem (e.g., lifecycle management from key generation to revocation and replacement, public key infrastructure, cryptographic protocol design and algorithms used, access controls in place for secure key generation, and exchange and storage including segregation of keys used for encrypted data or sessions). Upon request, provider shall inform the customer (tenant) of changes within the cryptosystem, especially if the customer (tenant) data is used as part of the service, and/or the customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of the control.
1	Physical and logical access to diagnostic and configuration ports shall be controlled.	Each operating system shall be hardened to provide only necessary ports, protocols, and services to meet business needs and have in place supporting technical controls such as: antivirus, file integrity monitoring, and logging as part of their baseline operating build standard or template.
0	Managers shall regularly review the compliance of information processing and procedures within their area of responsibility with the appropriate security policies, standards and any other security requirements.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for the use of encryption protocols for protection of sensitive data in storage (e.g., file servers, databases, and end-user workstations), data in use (memory), and data in transmission (e.g., system interfaces, over public networks, and electronic messaging) as per applicable legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations.
0	Ensure that all of the organization’s key systems are backed up as a complete system, through processes such as imaging, to enable the quick recovery of an entire system.	Access to all hypervisor management functions or administrative consoles for systems hosting virtualized systems shall be restricted to personnel based upon the principle of least privilege and supported through technical controls (e.g., two-factor authentication, audit trails, IP address filtering, firewalls, and TLS encapsulated communications to the administrative consoles).
1	• Detail your change control procedure and policy. This should also include the process used to re-assess risks as a result of changes and clarify whether the outputs are available to end customers.	Policies and procedures shall be established for managing the risks associated with applying changes to:  • Business-critical or customer (tenant)-impacting (physical and virtual) applications and system-system interface (API) designs and configurations.  • Infrastructure network and systems components. Technical measures shall be implemented to provide assurance that all changes directly correspond to a registered change request, business-critical or customer (tenant), and/or authorization by, the customer (tenant) as per agreement (SLA) prior to deployment.
0	• Do you use role-based access control (RBAC)? Is the principle of least privilege followed?	An inventory of all mobile devices used to store and access company data shall be kept and maintained. All changes to the status of these devices (i.e., operating system and patch levels, lost or decommissioned status, and to whom the device is assigned or approved for usage (BYOD)) will be included for each device in the inventory.
1	The organization:  a. Develops, documents, and disseminates to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]:    1. A contingency planning policy that addresses purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment, coordination among organizational entities, and compliance; and    2. Procedures to facilitate the implementation of the contingency planning policy and associated contingency planning controls; and  b. Reviews and updates the current:    1. Contingency planning policy [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and    2. Contingency planning procedures [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	There shall be a defined and documented method for determining the impact of any disruption to the organization (cloud provider, cloud consumer) that must incorporate the following:  • Identify critical products and services  • Identify all dependencies, including processes, applications, business partners, and third party service providers  • Understand threats to critical products and services  • Determine impacts resulting from planned or unplanned disruptions and how these vary over time  • Establish the maximum tolerable period for disruption  • Establish priorities for recovery  • Establish recovery time objectives for resumption of critical products and services within their maximum tolerable period of disruption  • Estimate the resources required for resumption
1	Formal exchange policies, procedures, and controls shall be in place to protect the exchange of information through the use of all types of communication mediums.	Policies and procedures shall be established and maintained in support of data security to include (confidentiality, integrity, and availability) across multiple system interfaces, jurisdictions, and business functions to prevent improper disclosure, alteration, or destruction.
1	Encrypt all sensitive information at rest using a tool that requires a secondary authentication mechanism not integrated into the operating system, in order to access the information.	Keys must have identifiable owners (binding keys to identities) and there shall be key management policies.
0	The organization: a. Implements an incident handling capability for security incidents that includes preparation, detection and analysis, containment, eradication, and recovery; b. Coordinates incident handling activities with contingency planning activities; and c. Incorporates lessons learned from ongoing incident handling activities into incident response procedures, training, and testing/exercises, and implements the resulting changes accordingly.	Data related to electronic commerce (ecommerce) that traverses public networks shall be appropriately classified and protected from fraudulent activity, unauthorized disclosure, or modification in such a manner to prevent contract dispute and compromise of data.
1	All relevant legislative statutory, regulatory, contractual requirements and the organization's approach to meet these requirements shall be explicitly identified, documented and kept up to date for each information system and the organization.	A centralized, mobile device management solution shall be deployed to all mobile devices permitted to store, transmit, or process customer data.
1	The organization:  a. Enforces physical access authorizations at [Assignment: organization-defined entry/exit points to the facility where the information system resides] by;    1. Verifying individual access authorizations before granting access to the facility; and    2. Controlling ingress/egress to the facility using [Selection (one or more): [Assignment: organization-defined physical access control systems/devices]; guards];  b. Maintains physical access audit logs for [Assignment: organization-defined entry/exit points];  c. Provides [Assignment: organization-defined security safeguards] to control access to areas within the facility officially designated as publicly accessible;  d. Escorts visitors and monitors visitor activity [Assignment: organization-defined circumstances requiring visitor escorts and monitoring];  e. Secures keys, combinations, and other physical access devices;  f. Inventories [Assignment: organization-defined physical access devices] every [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and  g. Changes combinations and keys [Assignment: organization-defined frequency] and/or when keys are lost, combinations are compromised, or individuals are transferred or terminated.	Ingress and egress to secure areas shall be constrained and monitored by physical access control mechanisms to ensure that only authorized personnel are allowed access.
1	The organization:  (a)   Implements procedures for the use of maintenance personnel that lack appropriate security clearances or are not U.S. citizens, that include the following requirements:     (1)   Maintenance personnel who do not have needed access authorizations, clearances, or formal access approvals are escorted and supervised during the performance of maintenance and diagnostic activities on the information system by approved organizational personnel who are fully cleared, have appropriate access authorizations, and are technically qualified;    (2)   Prior to initiating maintenance or diagnostic activities by personnel who do not have needed access authorizations, clearances or formal access approvals, all volatile information storage components within the information system are sanitized and all nonvolatile storage media are removed or physically disconnected from the system and secured; and  (b)   Develops and implements alternate security safeguards in the event an information system component cannot be sanitized, removed, or disconnected from the system.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for equipment maintenance ensuring continuity and availability of operations and support personnel.
1	Incorporate multi-factor authentication for all remote network access (both user and administrator, and including third-party access for support or maintenance) originating from outside the entity’s network.	Policies and procedures shall be established and maintained in support of data security to include (confidentiality, integrity, and availability) across multiple system interfaces, jurisdictions, and business functions to prevent improper disclosure, alteration, or destruction.
1	The organization:  a. Develops, documents, and disseminates to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]:    1. A physical and environmental protection policy that addresses purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment, coordination among organizational entities, and compliance; and    2. Procedures to facilitate the implementation of the physical and environmental protection policy and associated physical and environmental protection controls; and  b. Reviews and updates the current:    1. Physical and environmental protection policy [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and    2. Physical and environmental protection procedures [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	Policies and procedures shall be established and maintained in support of data security to include (confidentiality, integrity, and availability) across multiple system interfaces, jurisdictions, and business functions to prevent improper disclosure, alteration, or destruction.
0	The organization:  a. Monitors physical access to the facility where the information system resides to detect and respond to physical security incidents;  b. Reviews physical access logs [Assignment: organization-defined frequency] and upon occurrence of [Assignment: organization-defined events or potential indications of events]; and  c. Coordinates results of reviews and investigations with the organizational incident response capability.	Data center utilities services and environmental conditions (e.g., water, power, temperature and humidity controls, telecommunications, and internet connectivity) shall be secured, monitored, maintained, and tested for continual effectiveness at planned intervals to ensure protection from unauthorized interception or damage, and designed with automated fail-over or other redundancies in the event of planned or unplanned disruptions.
1	Disable peer-to-peer (ad hoc) wireless network capabilities on wireless clients.	Network architecture diagrams shall clearly identify high-risk environments and data flows that may have legal compliance impacts. Technical measures shall be implemented and shall apply defense-in-depth techniques (e.g., deep packet analysis, traffic throttling, and black-holing) for detection and timely response to network-based attacks associated with anomalous ingress or egress traffic patterns (e.g., MAC spoofing and ARP poisoning attacks) and/or distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) attacks.
0	Review custom code prior to release to production or customers in order to identify any potential coding vulnerability (using either manual or automated processes) to include at least the following:  Code changes are reviewed by individuals other than the originating code author, and by individuals knowledgeable about code-review techniques and secure coding practices.  Code reviews ensure code is developed according to secure coding guidelines  Appropriate corrections are implemented prior to release.  Code-review results are reviewed and approved by management prior to release.(Continued on next page)PCI DSS Requirements	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to inventory, document, and maintain data flows for data that is resident (permanently or temporarily) within the service's geographically distributed (physical and virtual) applications and infrastructure network and systems components and/or shared with other third parties to ascertain any regulatory, statutory, or supply chain agreement (SLA) compliance impact, and to address any other business risks associated with the data. Upon request, provider shall inform customer (tenant) of compliance impact and risk, especially if customer data is used as part of the services.
0	Visitors are identified and given a badge or other identification that expires and that visibly distinguishes the visitors from onsite personnel.	Policies and procedures shall be established for the secure disposal of equipment (by asset type) used outside the organization's premises. This shall include a wiping solution or destruction process that renders recovery of information impossible. The erasure shall consist of a full overwrite of the drive to ensure that the erased drive is released to inventory for reuse and deployment, or securely stored until it can be destroyed.
0	The organization:  a. Develops, documents, and disseminates to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]:    1. A personnel security policy that addresses purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment, coordination among organizational entities, and compliance; and    2. Procedures to facilitate the implementation of the personnel security policy and associated personnel security controls; and  b. Reviews and updates the current:    1. Personnel security policy [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and    2. Personnel security procedures [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	Authorization must be obtained prior to relocation or transfer of hardware, software, or data to an offsite premises.
0	The organization requires the developer of the information system, system component, or information system service to perform threat and vulnerability analyses and subsequent testing/evaluation of the as-built system, component, or service.	The organization requires the developer of the information system, system component, or information system service to perform threat and vulnerability analyses and subsequent testing/evaluation of the as-built system, component, or service.
0	Maintain an inventory of all sensitive information stored, processed, or transmitted by the organization’s technology systems, including those located on-site or at a remote service provider.	Roles and responsibilities of contractors, employees, and third-party users shall be documented as they relate to information assets and security.
1	The organization:  a. Establishes and makes readily available to individuals requiring access to the information system, the rules that describe their responsibilities and expected behavior with regard to information and information system usage;  b. Receives a signed acknowledgment from such individuals, indicating that they have read, understand, and agree to abide by the rules of behavior, before authorizing access to information and the information system;  c. Reviews and updates the rules of behavior [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and d. Requires individuals who have signed a previous version of the rules of behavior to read and resign when the rules of behavior are revised/updated.	Policies and procedures shall be established to require that unattended workspaces do not have openly visible (e.g., on a desktop) sensitive documents and user computing sessions are disabled after an established period of inactivity.
1	Shred, incinerate, or pulp hard- copy materials so that cardholder data cannot be reconstructed. Secure storage containers used for materials that are to be destroyed.	Policies and procedures shall be established with supporting business processes and technical measures implemented for the secure disposal and complete removal of data from all storage media, ensuring data is not recoverable by any computer forensic means.
1	Ensure that all system data is automatically backed up on a regular basis.	The mobile device policy shall require the BYOD user to perform backups of data, prohibit the usage of unapproved application stores, and require the use of anti-malware software (where supported).
1	The organization:  a. Separates [Assignment: organization-defined duties of individuals];  b. Documents separation of duties of individuals; and  c. Defines information system access authorizations to support separation of duties.	Access to the organization's own developed applications, program, or object source code, or any other form of intellectual property (IP), and use of proprietary software shall be appropriately restricted following the rule of least privilege based on job function as per established user access policies and procedures.
0	Define access needs for each role, including:  System components and data resources that each role needs to access for their job function  Level of privilege required (for example, user, administrator, etc.) for accessing resources.	To reduce the risks from environmental threats, hazards, and opportunities for unauthorized access, equipment shall be kept away from locations subject to high probability environmental risks and supplemented by redundant equipment located at a reasonable distance.
1	The organization establishes alternate telecommunications services including necessary agreements to permit the resumption of [Assignment: organization-defined information system operations] for essential missions and business functions within [Assignment: organization- defined time period] when the primary telecommunications capabilities are unavailable at either the primary or alternate processing or storage sites.	Protection measures shall be put into place to react to natural and man-made threats based upon a geographically-specific business impact assessment.
1	All configuration rules that allow traffic to flow through network devices should be documented in a configuration management system with a specific business reason for each rule, a specific individual’s name responsible for that business need, and an expected duration of the need.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to protect wireless network environments, including the following:  • Perimeter firewalls implemented and configured to restrict unauthorized traffic  • Security settings enabled with strong encryption for authentication and transmission, replacing vendor default settings (e.g., encryption keys, passwords, and SNMP community strings)  • User access to wireless network devices restricted to authorized personnel  • The capability to detect the presence of unauthorized (rogue) wireless network devices for a timely disconnect from the network
0	The organization's approach to managing information security and its implementation (control objectives, controls, policies, processes, and procedures for information security) shall be reviewed independently at planned intervals, at a minimum annually, or when significant changes to the security implementation occur.	Each operating system shall be hardened to provide only necessary ports, protocols, and services to meet business needs and have in place supporting technical controls such as: antivirus, file integrity monitoring, and logging as part of their baseline operating build standard or template.
0	There shall be a formal documented and implemented user registration and de-registration procedure for granting and revoking access.	Pursuant to local laws, regulations, ethics, and contractual constraints, all employment candidates, contractors, and third parties shall be subject to background verification proportional to the data classification to be accessed, the business requirements, and acceptable risk.
1	• Are there processes for testing that data can be exported to another cloud provider – should the client wish to change provider, for example?	Policies, procedures, and mutually-agreed upon provisions and/or terms shall be established to satisfy customer (tenant) requirements for service-to-service application (API) and information processing interoperability, and portability for application development and information exchange, usage, and integrity persistence.
1	The organization:  a. Conducts an assessment of risk, including the likelihood and magnitude of harm, from the unauthorized access, use, disclosure, disruption, modification, or destruction of the information system and the information it processes, stores, or transmits;  b. Documents risk assessment results in [Selection: security plan; risk assessment report; [Assignment: organization-defined document]];  c. Reviews risk assessment results [Assignment: organization-defined frequency];  d. Disseminates risk assessment results to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]; and  e. Updates the risk assessment [Assignment: organization-defined frequency] or whenever there are significant changes to the information system or environment of operation (including the identification of new threats and vulnerabilities), or other conditions that may impact the security state of the system.	There shall be a defined and documented method for determining the impact of any disruption to the organization (cloud provider, cloud consumer) that must incorporate the following:  • Identify critical products and services  • Identify all dependencies, including processes, applications, business partners, and third party service providers  • Understand threats to critical products and services  • Determine impacts resulting from planned or unplanned disruptions and how these vary over time  • Establish the maximum tolerable period for disruption  • Establish priorities for recovery  • Establish recovery time objectives for resumption of critical products and services within their maximum tolerable period of disruption  • Estimate the resources required for resumption
0	Risk Assessments shall be performed to identify and quantify risks.	The availability, quality, and adequate capacity and resources shall be planned, prepared, and measured to deliver the required system performance in accordance with legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations. Projections of future capacity requirements shall be made to mitigate the risk of system overload.
1	• Can the provider confirm that the virtualised image does not contain the authentication credentials?	Internal corporate or customer (tenant) user account credentials shall be restricted as per the following, ensuring appropriate identity, entitlement, and access management and in accordance with established policies and procedures:  • Identity trust verification and service-to-service application (API) and information processing interoperability (e.g., SSO and Federation)  • Account credential lifecycle management from instantiation through revocation  • Account credential and/or identity store minimization or re-use when feasible  • Adherence to industry acceptable and/or regulatory compliant authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules (e.g., strong/multi-factor, expireable, non-shared authentication secrets)
0	Assets maintained in the inventory shall be owned.	Prior to granting customers access to data, assets, and information systems, identified security, contractual, and regulatory requirements for customer access shall be addressed.
1	The organization:  a. Authorizes connections from the information system to other information systems through the use of Interconnection Security Agreements;  b. Documents, for each interconnection, the interface characteristics, security requirements, and the nature of the information communicated; and  c. Reviews and updates Interconnection Security Agreements [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	All cloud-based services used by the company's mobile devices or BYOD shall be pre-approved for usage and the storage of company business data.
1	Ensure that security policies and operational procedures for restricting access to cardholder data are documented, in use, and known to all affected parties.	Managers are responsible for maintaining awareness of, and complying with, security policies, procedures, and standards that are relevant to their area of responsibility.
1	All relevant legislative statutory, regulatory, contractual requirements and the organization's approach to meet these requirements shall be explicitly identified, documented and kept up to date for each information system and the organization.	The mobile device policy shall prohibit the circumvention of built-in security controls on mobile devices (e.g., jailbreaking or rooting) and shall enforce the prohibition through detective and preventative controls on the device or through a centralized device management system (e.g., mobile device management).
0	The organization permits authorized individuals to use an external information system to access the information system or to process, store, or transmit organization-controlled information only when the organization:  (a)   Verifies the implementation of required security controls on the external system as specified in the organization’s information security policy and security plan; or  (b)   Retains approved information system connection or processing agreements with the organizational entity hosting the external information system.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes implemented, for maintaining a safe and secure working environment in offices, rooms, facilities, and secure areas storing sensitive information.
0	Do not store the card verification code or value (three-digit or four-digit number printed on the front or back of a payment card used to verify card-not- present transactions) after authorization.	Policies and procedures shall be established for the management of cryptographic keys in the service's cryptosystem (e.g., lifecycle management from key generation to revocation and replacement, public key infrastructure, cryptographic protocol design and algorithms used, access controls in place for secure key generation, and exchange and storage including segregation of keys used for encrypted data or sessions). Upon request, provider shall inform the customer (tenant) of changes within the cryptosystem, especially if the customer (tenant) data is used as part of the service, and/or the customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of the control.
0	Use Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) logging on all DHCP servers or IP address management tools to update the organization’s hardware asset inventory.	Access to, and use of, audit tools that interact with the organization's information systems shall be appropriately segregated and access restricted to prevent inappropriate disclosure and tampering of log data.
0	An access control policy shall be established, documented and reviewed based on business and information security requirements.	Data center utilities services and environmental conditions (e.g., water, power, temperature and humidity controls, telecommunications, and internet connectivity) shall be secured, monitored, maintained, and tested for continual effectiveness at planned intervals to ensure protection from unauthorized interception or damage, and designed with automated fail-over or other redundancies in the event of planned or unplanned disruptions.
0	Origination of event	Requirements for non-disclosure or confidentiality agreements reflecting the organization's needs for the protection of data and operational details shall be identified, documented, and reviewed at planned intervals.
1	Enable anti-exploitation features such as Data Execution Prevention (DEP) or Address Space Layout Randomization (ASLR) that are available in an operating system or deploy appropriate toolkits that can be configured to apply protection to a broader set of applications and executables.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to prevent the execution of malware on organizationally-owned or managed user end-point devices (i.e., issued workstations, laptops, and mobile devices) and IT infrastructure network and systems components.
1	Managers shall regularly review the compliance of information processing and procedures within their area of responsibility with the appropriate security policies, standards and any other security requirements.	Risk assessment results shall include updates to security policies, procedures, standards, and controls to ensure that they remain relevant and effective.
0	Restrict access to privileged user IDs to least privileges necessary to perform job responsibilities.	Ingress and egress points such as service areas and other points where unauthorized personnel may enter the premises shall be monitored, controlled and, if possible, isolated from data storage and processing facilities to prevent unauthorized data corruption, compromise, and loss.
0	The organization:  a. Develops, documents, and disseminates to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]:    1. An incident response policy that addresses purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment, coordination among organizational entities, and compliance; and    2. Procedures to facilitate the implementation of the incident response policy and associated incident response controls; and  b. Reviews and updates the current:    1. Incident response policy [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and    2. Incident response procedures [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for defining and adhering to the retention period of any critical asset as per established policies and procedures, as well as applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance obligations. Backup and recovery measures shall be incorporated as part of business continuity planning and tested accordingly for effectiveness.
0	The organization applies information system security engineering principles in the specification, design, development, implementation, and modification of the information system.	The organization applies information system security engineering principles in the specification, design, development, implementation, and modification of the information system.
1	Ensure that there are written incident response plans that define roles of personnel as well as phases of incident handling/management.	Workforce personnel and external business relationships shall be informed of their responsibilities and, if required, shall consent and/or contractually agree to report all information security events in a timely manner. Information security events shall be reported through predefined communications channels in a timely manner adhering to applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance obligations.
1	Assignment of privileges to individuals based on job classification and function.	Access to the organization's own developed applications, program, or object source code, or any other form of intellectual property (IP), and use of proprietary software shall be appropriately restricted following the rule of least privilege based on job function as per established user access policies and procedures.
0	Deploy automated software update tools in order to ensure that the operating systems are running the most recent security updates provided by the software vendor.	Password policies, applicable to mobile devices, shall be documented and enforced through technical controls on all company devices or devices approved for BYOD usage, and shall prohibit the changing of password/PIN lengths and authentication requirements.
0	Broken authentication and session management.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes implemented, for maintaining a safe and secure working environment in offices, rooms, facilities, and secure areas storing sensitive information.
1	• Does the system allow for a federated IDM infrastructure which is interoperable both for high assurance (OTP systems, where required) and low assurance (eg. username and password)?	User access policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for ensuring appropriate identity, entitlement, and access management for all internal corporate and customer (tenant) users with access to data and organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) application interfaces and infrastructure network and systems components. These policies, procedures, processes, and measures must incorporate the following:  • Procedures, supporting roles, and responsibilities for provisioning and de-provisioning user account entitlements following the rule of least privilege based on job function (e.g., internal employee and contingent staff personnel changes, customer-controlled access, suppliers' business relationships, or other third-party business relationships)  • Business case considerations for higher levels of assurance and multi-factor authentication secrets (e.g., management interfaces, key generation, remote access, segregation of duties, emergency access, large-scale provisioning or geographically-distributed deployments, and personnel redundancy for critical systems)  • Access segmentation to sessions and data in multi-tenant architectures by any third party (e.g., provider and/or other customer (tenant))  • Identity trust verification and service-to-service application (API) and information processing interoperability (e.g., SSO and federation)  • Account credential lifecycle management from instantiation through revocation  • Account credential and/or identity store minimization or re-use when feasible  • Authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules for access to data and sessions (e.g., encryption and strong/multi-factor, expireable, non-shared authentication secrets)  • Permissions and supporting capabilities for customer (tenant) controls over authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules for access to data and sessions  • Adherence to applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance requirements
1	Utilize centrally managed anti-malware software to continuously monitor and defend each of the organization’s workstations and servers.	The mobile device policy shall prohibit the circumvention of built-in security controls on mobile devices (e.g., jailbreaking or rooting) and shall enforce the prohibition through detective and preventative controls on the device or through a centralized device management system (e.g., mobile device management).
0	The information system implements privileged access authorization to [Assignment: organization- identified information system components] for selected [Assignment: organization-defined vulnerability scanning activities].	Keys must have identifiable owners (binding keys to identities) and there shall be key management policies.
0	The organization:  a. Develops, documents, and disseminates to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]:    1. A security awareness and training policy that addresses purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment, coordination among organizational entities, and compliance; and    2.  Procedures to facilitate the implementation of the security awareness and training policy and associated security awareness and training controls; and  b. Reviews and updates the current:    1. Security awareness and training policy [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and    2.  Security awareness and training procedures [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	The provider shall use open and published APIs to ensure support for interoperability between components and to facilitate migrating applications.
1	Manage the network infrastructure across network connections that are separated from the business use of that network, relying on separate VLANs or, preferably, on entirely different physical connectivity for management sessions for network devices.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to inventory, document, and maintain data flows for data that is resident (permanently or temporarily) within the service's geographically distributed (physical and virtual) applications and infrastructure network and systems components and/or shared with other third parties to ascertain any regulatory, statutory, or supply chain agreement (SLA) compliance impact, and to address any other business risks associated with the data. Upon request, provider shall inform customer (tenant) of compliance impact and risk, especially if customer data is used as part of the services.
1	Managers shall regularly review the compliance of information processing and procedures within their area of responsibility with the appropriate security policies, standards and any other security requirements.	Applications and programming interfaces (APIs) shall be designed, developed, deployed, and tested in accordance with leading industry standards (e.g., OWASP for web applications) and adhere to applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance obligations.
0	Administer user accounts, including additions, deletions, and modifications.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for equipment maintenance ensuring continuity and availability of operations and support personnel.
1	Outsourced software development shall be supervised and monitored by the organization.	External business partners shall adhere to the same policies and procedures for change management, release, and testing as internal developers within the organization (e.g., ITIL service management processes).
0	A policy on the use of cryptographic controls for protection of information shall be developed and implemented, and supported by formal procedures.	Workforce personnel and external business relationships shall be informed of their responsibilities and, if required, shall consent and/or contractually agree to report all information security events in a timely manner. Information security events shall be reported through predefined communications channels in a timely manner adhering to applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance obligations.
0	When operating platforms are changed, business critical applications shall be reviewed and tested to ensure there is no adverse impact on organizational operations or security.	Internal corporate or customer (tenant) user account credentials shall be restricted as per the following, ensuring appropriate identity, entitlement, and access management and in accordance with established policies and procedures:  • Identity trust verification and service-to-service application (API) and information processing interoperability (e.g., SSO and Federation)  • Account credential lifecycle management from instantiation through revocation  • Account credential and/or identity store minimization or re-use when feasible  • Adherence to industry acceptable and/or regulatory compliant authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules (e.g., strong/multi-factor, expireable, non-shared authentication secrets)
1	The organization:  a. Establishes a process for maintenance personnel authorization and maintains a list of authorized maintenance organizations or personnel;  b. Ensures that non-escorted personnel performing maintenance on the information system have required access authorizations; and  c. Designates organizational personnel with required access authorizations and technical competence to supervise the maintenance activities of personnel who do not possess the required access authorizations.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for equipment maintenance ensuring continuity and availability of operations and support personnel.
0	The organization:  a. Maintains visitor access records to the facility where the information system resides for [Assignment: organization-defined time period]; and  b. Reviews visitor access records [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	User access policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for ensuring appropriate identity, entitlement, and access management for all internal corporate and customer (tenant) users with access to data and organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) application interfaces and infrastructure network and systems components. These policies, procedures, processes, and measures must incorporate the following:  • Procedures, supporting roles, and responsibilities for provisioning and de-provisioning user account entitlements following the rule of least privilege based on job function (e.g., internal employee and contingent staff personnel changes, customer-controlled access, suppliers' business relationships, or other third-party business relationships)  • Business case considerations for higher levels of assurance and multi-factor authentication secrets (e.g., management interfaces, key generation, remote access, segregation of duties, emergency access, large-scale provisioning or geographically-distributed deployments, and personnel redundancy for critical systems)  • Access segmentation to sessions and data in multi-tenant architectures by any third party (e.g., provider and/or other customer (tenant))  • Identity trust verification and service-to-service application (API) and information processing interoperability (e.g., SSO and federation)  • Account credential lifecycle management from instantiation through revocation  • Account credential and/or identity store minimization or re-use when feasible  • Authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules for access to data and sessions (e.g., encryption and strong/multi-factor, expireable, non-shared authentication secrets)  • Permissions and supporting capabilities for customer (tenant) controls over authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules for access to data and sessions  • Adherence to applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance requirements
0	The organization:  a. Screens individuals prior to authorizing access to the information system; and  b. Rescreens individuals according to [Assignment: organization-defined conditions requiring rescreening and, where rescreening is so indicated, the frequency of such rescreening].	The mobile device policy shall prohibit the circumvention of built-in security controls on mobile devices (e.g., jailbreaking or rooting) and shall enforce the prohibition through detective and preventative controls on the device or through a centralized device management system (e.g., mobile device management).
0	• Request information on how multi-tenanted applications are isolated from each other – a high level description of containment and isolation measures is required.	Higher levels of assurance are required for protection, retention, and lifecycle management of audit logs, adhering to applicable legal, statutory or regulatory compliance obligations and providing unique user access accountability to detect potentially suspicious network behaviors and/or file integrity anomalies, and to support forensic investigative capabilities in the event of a security breach.
1	Keep cardholder data storage to a minimum by implementing data retention and disposal policies, procedures and processes that include at least the following for all cardholder data (CHD) storage:  Limiting data storage amount and retention time to that which is required for legal, regulatory, and/or business requirements  Specific retention requirements for cardholder data  Processes for secure deletion of data when no longer needed  A quarterly process for identifying and securely deleting stored cardholder data that exceeds defined retention.PCI DSS Requirements	Data and objects containing data shall be assigned a classification by the data owner based on data type, value, sensitivity, and criticality to the organization.
0	The organization establishes terms and conditions, consistent with any trust relationships established with other organizations owning, operating, and/or maintaining external information systems, allowing authorized individuals to:  a. Access the information system from external information systems; and  b. Process, store, or transmit organization-controlled information using external information systems.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for equipment maintenance ensuring continuity and availability of operations and support personnel.
1	All relevant legislative statutory, regulatory, contractual requirements and the organization's approach to meet these requirements shall be explicitly identified, documented and kept up to date for each information system and the organization.	The mobile device policy shall require the use of encryption either for the entire device or for data identified as sensitive on all mobile devices, and shall be enforced through technology controls.
0	Requirements for confidentiality or non-disclosure agreements reflecting the organization's needs for the protection of information shall be identified, regularly reviewed and documented.	Providers shall assure reasonable information security across their information supply chain by performing an annual review. The review shall include all partners/third party-providers upon which their information supply chain depends on.
0	The organization:  a. Develops, documents, and disseminates to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]:    1. A physical and environmental protection policy that addresses purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment, coordination among organizational entities, and compliance; and    2. Procedures to facilitate the implementation of the physical and environmental protection policy and associated physical and environmental protection controls; and  b. Reviews and updates the current:    1. Physical and environmental protection policy [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and    2. Physical and environmental protection procedures [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	Keys must have identifiable owners (binding keys to identities) and there shall be key management policies.
1	Deny communications with known malicious or unused Internet IP addresses and limit access only to trusted and necessary IP address ranges at each of the organization’s network boundaries.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to protect wireless network environments, including the following:  • Perimeter firewalls implemented and configured to restrict unauthorized traffic  • Security settings enabled with strong encryption for authentication and transmission, replacing vendor default settings (e.g., encryption keys, passwords, and SNMP community strings)  • User access to wireless network devices restricted to authorized personnel  • The capability to detect the presence of unauthorized (rogue) wireless network devices for a timely disconnect from the network
0	The organization includes security awareness training on recognizing and reporting potential indicators of insider threat.	The organization includes security awareness training on recognizing and reporting potential indicators of insider threat.
0	Perform reviews at least quarterly to verify BAU activities are being followed. Reviews must be performed by personnel assigned to the PCI DSS compliance program (as identified in A3.1.3), and include the following:  Confirmation that all BAU activities (e.g., A3.2.2, A3.2.6, and A3.3.1) are being performed  Confirmation that personnel are following security policies and operational procedures (for example, daily log reviews, firewall rule-set reviews, configuration standards for new systems, etc.)  Documenting how the reviews were completed, including how all BAU activities were verified as being in place.  Collection of documented evidence as required for the annual PCI DSS assessment  Review and sign-off of results by personnel assigned responsibility for the PCI DSS compliance program (as identified in A3.1.3)  Retention of records and documentation for at least 12 months, covering all BAU activities	User access policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for ensuring appropriate identity, entitlement, and access management for all internal corporate and customer (tenant) users with access to data and organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) application interfaces and infrastructure network and systems components. These policies, procedures, processes, and measures must incorporate the following:  • Procedures, supporting roles, and responsibilities for provisioning and de-provisioning user account entitlements following the rule of least privilege based on job function (e.g., internal employee and contingent staff personnel changes, customer-controlled access, suppliers' business relationships, or other third-party business relationships)  • Business case considerations for higher levels of assurance and multi-factor authentication secrets (e.g., management interfaces, key generation, remote access, segregation of duties, emergency access, large-scale provisioning or geographically-distributed deployments, and personnel redundancy for critical systems)  • Access segmentation to sessions and data in multi-tenant architectures by any third party (e.g., provider and/or other customer (tenant))  • Identity trust verification and service-to-service application (API) and information processing interoperability (e.g., SSO and federation)  • Account credential lifecycle management from instantiation through revocation  • Account credential and/or identity store minimization or re-use when feasible  • Authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules for access to data and sessions (e.g., encryption and strong/multi-factor, expireable, non-shared authentication secrets)  • Permissions and supporting capabilities for customer (tenant) controls over authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules for access to data and sessions  • Adherence to applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance requirements
1	Users shall only be provided with access to the network and network services that they have been specifically authorized to use.	User access policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for ensuring appropriate identity, entitlement, and access management for all internal corporate and customer (tenant) users with access to data and organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) application interfaces and infrastructure network and systems components. These policies, procedures, processes, and measures must incorporate the following:  • Procedures, supporting roles, and responsibilities for provisioning and de-provisioning user account entitlements following the rule of least privilege based on job function (e.g., internal employee and contingent staff personnel changes, customer-controlled access, suppliers' business relationships, or other third-party business relationships)  • Business case considerations for higher levels of assurance and multi-factor authentication secrets (e.g., management interfaces, key generation, remote access, segregation of duties, emergency access, large-scale provisioning or geographically-distributed deployments, and personnel redundancy for critical systems)  • Access segmentation to sessions and data in multi-tenant architectures by any third party (e.g., provider and/or other customer (tenant))  • Identity trust verification and service-to-service application (API) and information processing interoperability (e.g., SSO and federation)  • Account credential lifecycle management from instantiation through revocation  • Account credential and/or identity store minimization or re-use when feasible  • Authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules for access to data and sessions (e.g., encryption and strong/multi-factor, expireable, non-shared authentication secrets)  • Permissions and supporting capabilities for customer (tenant) controls over authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules for access to data and sessions  • Adherence to applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance requirements
1	Audit requirements and activities involving verification of operational systems shall be carefully planned and agreed to minimise disruptions to business processes.	Audit plans shall be developed and maintained to address business process disruptions. Auditing plans shall focus on reviewing the effectiveness of the implementation of security operations. All audit activities must be agreed upon prior to executing any audits.
1	Asset owners shall review users' access rights at regular intervals.	Internal corporate or customer (tenant) user account credentials shall be restricted as per the following, ensuring appropriate identity, entitlement, and access management and in accordance with established policies and procedures:  • Identity trust verification and service-to-service application (API) and information processing interoperability (e.g., SSO and Federation)  • Account credential lifecycle management from instantiation through revocation  • Account credential and/or identity store minimization or re-use when feasible  • Adherence to industry acceptable and/or regulatory compliant authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules (e.g., strong/multi-factor, expireable, non-shared authentication secrets)
0	To ensure that disclosures of PII, especially to third-parties, are recorded. To ensure the PII processor notifies the PII controller of any legally binding requests for disclosure of PII. Provisions for the use of subcontractors to process PII should be specified in the contract between the PII processor and the PII controller.	To ensure that disclosures of PII, especially to third-parties, are recorded. To ensure the PII processor notifies the PII controller of any legally binding requests for disclosure of PII. Provisions for the use of subcontractors to process PII should be specified in the contract between the PII processor and the PII controller.
1	The organization:  a. Screens individuals prior to authorizing access to the information system; and  b. Rescreens individuals according to [Assignment: organization-defined conditions requiring rescreening and, where rescreening is so indicated, the frequency of such rescreening].	Pursuant to local laws, regulations, ethics, and contractual constraints, all employment candidates, contractors, and third parties shall be subject to background verification proportional to the data classification to be accessed, the business requirements, and acceptable risk.
0	The organization employs [Assignment: organization-defined security safeguards] to ensure that the interests of [Assignment: organization-defined external service providers] are consistent with and reflect organizational interests.	The organization's business leadership (or other accountable business role or function) shall review the information security policy at planned intervals or as a result of changes to the organization to ensure its continuing alignment with the security strategy, effectiveness, accuracy, relevance, and applicability to legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance obligations.
1	Implement audit trails to link all access to system components to each individual user.	Internal corporate or customer (tenant) user account credentials shall be restricted as per the following, ensuring appropriate identity, entitlement, and access management and in accordance with established policies and procedures:  • Identity trust verification and service-to-service application (API) and information processing interoperability (e.g., SSO and Federation)  • Account credential lifecycle management from instantiation through revocation  • Account credential and/or identity store minimization or re-use when feasible  • Adherence to industry acceptable and/or regulatory compliant authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules (e.g., strong/multi-factor, expireable, non-shared authentication secrets)
0	The organization employs [Selection: full-device encryption; container encryption] to protect the confidentiality and integrity of information on [Assignment: organization-defined mobile devices].	Provisioning user access (e.g., employees, contractors, customers (tenants), business partners, and/or supplier relationships) to data and organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) applications, infrastructure systems, and network components shall be authorized by the organization's management prior to access being granted and appropriately restricted as per established policies and procedures. Upon request, provider shall inform customer (tenant) of this user access, especially if customer (tenant) data is used as part the service and/or customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of control.
1	Cryptographic controls shall be used in compliance with all relevant agreements, legislation and regulations.	Policies and procedures shall be established for the management of cryptographic keys in the service's cryptosystem (e.g., lifecycle management from key generation to revocation and replacement, public key infrastructure, cryptographic protocol design and algorithms used, access controls in place for secure key generation, and exchange and storage including segregation of keys used for encrypted data or sessions). Upon request, provider shall inform the customer (tenant) of changes within the cryptosystem, especially if the customer (tenant) data is used as part of the service, and/or the customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of the control.
1	• Detail your change control procedure and policy. This should also include the process used to re-assess risks as a result of changes and clarify whether the outputs are available to end customers.	Aligned with the enterprise-wide framework, formal risk assessments shall be performed at least annually or at planned intervals, (and in conjunction with any changes to information systems) to determine the likelihood and impact of all identified risks using qualitative and quantitative methods. The likelihood and impact associated with inherent and residual risk shall be determined independently, considering all risk categories (e.g., audit results, threat and vulnerability analysis, and regulatory compliance).
0	Detection, prevention and recovery controls to protect against malware shall be implemented, combined with appropriate user awareness.	Policies and procedures shall be established to store and manage identity information about every person who accesses IT infrastructure and to determine their level of access. Policies shall also be developed to control access to network resources based on user identity.
1	Maintain strict control over the internal or external distribution of any kind of media, including the following:	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for defining and adhering to the retention period of any critical asset as per established policies and procedures, as well as applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance obligations. Backup and recovery measures shall be incorporated as part of business continuity planning and tested accordingly for effectiveness.
1	The clocks of all relevant information processing systems within the organization or security domain shall be synchronized with an agreed accurate time source to support tracing and reconstitution of activity timelines.	A reliable and mutually agreed upon external time source shall be used to synchronize the system clocks of all relevant information processing systems to facilitate tracing and reconstitution of activity timelines.
0	Managers shall regularly review the compliance of information processing and procedures within their area of responsibility with the appropriate security policies, standards and any other security requirements.	Points of contact for applicable regulation authorities, national and local law enforcement, and other legal jurisdictional authorities shall be maintained and regularly updated (e.g., change in impacted-scope and/or a change in any compliance obligation) to ensure direct compliance liaisons have been established and to be prepared for a forensic investigation requiring rapid engagement with law enforcement.
0	Enable command-line audit logging for command shells, such as Microsoft PowerShell and Bash.	Assets must be classified in terms of business criticality, service-level expectations, and operational continuity requirements. A complete inventory of business-critical assets located at all sites and/or geographical locations and their usage over time shall be maintained and updated regularly, and assigned ownership by defined roles and responsibilities.
1	Deploy system configuration management tools that will automatically enforce and redeploy configuration settings to systems at regularly scheduled intervals.	The provider shall ensure the integrity of all virtual machine images at all times. Any changes made to virtual machine images must be logged and an alert raised regardless of their running state (e.g., dormant, off, or running). The results of a change or move of an image and the subsequent validation of the image's integrity must be immediately available to customers through electronic methods (e.g., portals or alerts).
1	Deploy network-based Intrusion Prevention Systems (IPS) to block malicious network traffic at each of the organization’s network boundaries.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes implemented, for maintaining a safe and secure working environment in offices, rooms, facilities, and secure areas storing sensitive information.
1	The organization:  (a)   Limits privileges to change information system components and system-related information within a production or operational environment; and  (b)   Reviews and reevaluates privileges [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	Access to the organization's own developed applications, program, or object source code, or any other form of intellectual property (IP), and use of proprietary software shall be appropriately restricted following the rule of least privilege based on job function as per established user access policies and procedures.
0	• In the case of SaaS, are the API interfaces used standardised?	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for equipment maintenance ensuring continuity and availability of operations and support personnel.
0	The organization obtains alternate telecommunications services to reduce the likelihood of sharing a single point of failure with primary telecommunications services. 	User access policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for ensuring appropriate identity, entitlement, and access management for all internal corporate and customer (tenant) users with access to data and organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) application interfaces and infrastructure network and systems components. These policies, procedures, processes, and measures must incorporate the following:  • Procedures, supporting roles, and responsibilities for provisioning and de-provisioning user account entitlements following the rule of least privilege based on job function (e.g., internal employee and contingent staff personnel changes, customer-controlled access, suppliers' business relationships, or other third-party business relationships)  • Business case considerations for higher levels of assurance and multi-factor authentication secrets (e.g., management interfaces, key generation, remote access, segregation of duties, emergency access, large-scale provisioning or geographically-distributed deployments, and personnel redundancy for critical systems)  • Access segmentation to sessions and data in multi-tenant architectures by any third party (e.g., provider and/or other customer (tenant))  • Identity trust verification and service-to-service application (API) and information processing interoperability (e.g., SSO and federation)  • Account credential lifecycle management from instantiation through revocation  • Account credential and/or identity store minimization or re-use when feasible  • Authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules for access to data and sessions (e.g., encryption and strong/multi-factor, expireable, non-shared authentication secrets)  • Permissions and supporting capabilities for customer (tenant) controls over authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules for access to data and sessions  • Adherence to applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance requirements
0	The organization restricts privileged accounts on the information system to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles].	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting processes and technical measures implemented, for timely detection of vulnerabilities within organizationally-owned or managed applications, infrastructure network and system components (e.g., network vulnerability assessment, penetration testing) to ensure the efficiency of implemented security controls. A risk-based model for prioritizing remediation of identified vulnerabilities shall be used. Changes shall be managed through a change management process for all vendor-supplied patches, configuration changes, or changes to the organization's internally developed software. Upon request, the provider informs customer (tenant) of policies and procedures and identified weaknesses especially if customer (tenant) data is used as part the service and/or customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of control.
0	Power and telecommunications cabling carrying data or supporting information services shall be protected from interception or damage.	Information security policies and procedures shall be established and made readily available for review by all impacted personnel and external business relationships. Information security policies must be authorized by the organization's business leadership (or other accountable business role or function) and supported by a strategic business plan and an information security management program inclusive of defined information security roles and responsibilities for business leadership.
0	Segment the network based on the label or classification level of the information stored on the servers, locate all sensitive information on separated Virtual Local Area Networks (VLANs).	Information system documentation (e.g., administrator and user guides, and architecture diagrams) shall be made available to authorized personnel to ensure the following:  • Configuring, installing, and operating the information system  • Effectively using the system’s security features
0	• Can the provider confirm that the virtualised image does not contain the authentication credentials?	The provider shall make security incident information available to all affected customers and providers periodically through electronic methods (e.g., portals).
1	The organization establishes terms and conditions, consistent with any trust relationships established with other organizations owning, operating, and/or maintaining external information systems, allowing authorized individuals to:  a. Access the information system from external information systems; and  b. Process, store, or transmit organization-controlled information using external information systems.	All mobile devices permitted for use through the company BYOD program or a company-assigned mobile device shall allow for remote wipe by the company's corporate IT or shall have all company-provided data wiped by the company's corporate IT.
0	On a regular basis, tune your SIEM system to better identify actionable events and decrease event noise.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes implemented, for maintaining a safe and secure working environment in offices, rooms, facilities, and secure areas storing sensitive information.
0	• Do you protect your buildings from lightening strikes? o Including electrical and communication lines? 	Policies and procedures shall be implemented to ensure the consistent review of service agreements (e.g., SLAs) between providers and customers (tenants) across the relevant supply chain (upstream/downstream). Reviews shall be performed at least annually and identify any non-conformance to established agreements. The reviews should result in actions to address service-level conflicts or inconsistencies resulting from disparate supplier relationships.
1	All relevant legislative statutory, regulatory, contractual requirements and the organization's approach to meet these requirements shall be explicitly identified, documented and kept up to date for each information system and the organization.	Anti-malware awareness training, specific to mobile devices, shall be included in the provider's information security awareness training.
1	• How are the keys protected?	Policies and procedures shall be established for the management of cryptographic keys in the service's cryptosystem (e.g., lifecycle management from key generation to revocation and replacement, public key infrastructure, cryptographic protocol design and algorithms used, access controls in place for secure key generation, and exchange and storage including segregation of keys used for encrypted data or sessions). Upon request, provider shall inform the customer (tenant) of changes within the cryptosystem, especially if the customer (tenant) data is used as part of the service, and/or the customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of the control.
0	Information systems shall be regularly reviewed for compliance with the organization's information security policies and standards.	Policies and procedures shall be established for the management of cryptographic keys in the service's cryptosystem (e.g., lifecycle management from key generation to revocation and replacement, public key infrastructure, cryptographic protocol design and algorithms used, access controls in place for secure key generation, and exchange and storage including segregation of keys used for encrypted data or sessions). Upon request, provider shall inform the customer (tenant) of changes within the cryptosystem, especially if the customer (tenant) data is used as part of the service, and/or the customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of the control.
1	Formal exchange policies, procedures, and controls shall be in place to protect the exchange of information through the use of all types of communication mediums.	The provider shall use secure (e.g., non-clear text and authenticated) standardized network protocols for the import and export of data and to manage the service, and shall make available a document to consumers (tenants) detailing the relevant interoperability and portability standards that are involved.
1	The organization:  a. Requires personnel to report suspected security incidents to the organizational incident response capability within [Assignment: organization-defined time period]; and  b. Reports security incident information to [Assignment: organization-defined authorities].	Workforce personnel and external business relationships shall be informed of their responsibilities and, if required, shall consent and/or contractually agree to report all information security events in a timely manner. Information security events shall be reported through predefined communications channels in a timely manner adhering to applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance obligations.
0	Visitors are identified and given a badge or other identification that expires and that visibly distinguishes the visitors from onsite personnel.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for equipment maintenance ensuring continuity and availability of operations and support personnel.
0	Compare all network device configuration against approved security configurations defined for each network device in use and alert when any deviations are discovered.	Roles and responsibilities for performing employment termination or change in employment procedures shall be assigned, documented, and communicated.
1	Develop usage policies for critical technologies and define proper use of these technologies.	Policies and procedures shall be established for the secure disposal of equipment (by asset type) used outside the organization's premises. This shall include a wiping solution or destruction process that renders recovery of information impossible. The erasure shall consist of a full overwrite of the drive to ensure that the erased drive is released to inventory for reuse and deployment, or securely stored until it can be destroyed.
1	• Encryption can be used in multiple places − where is it used? o data in transit o data at rest o data in processor or memory? 	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for the use of encryption protocols for protection of sensitive data in storage (e.g., file servers, databases, and end-user workstations), data in use (memory), and data in transmission (e.g., system interfaces, over public networks, and electronic messaging) as per applicable legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations.
1	The information system uniquely identifies and authenticates organizational users (or processes acting on behalf of organizational users).	Policies and procedures shall be established to store and manage identity information about every person who accesses IT infrastructure and to determine their level of access. Policies shall also be developed to control access to network resources based on user identity.
0	When operating platforms are changed, business critical applications shall be reviewed and tested to ensure there is no adverse impact on organizational operations or security.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to manage business risks associated with permitting mobile device access to corporate resources and may require the implementation of higher assurance compensating controls and acceptable-use policies and procedures (e.g., mandated security training, stronger identity, entitlement and access controls, and device monitoring).
1	Ensure network engineers use a dedicated machine for all administrative tasks or tasks requiring elevated access. This machine shall be segmented from the organization’s primary network and not be allowed Internet access. This machine shall not be used for reading email, composing documents, or surfing the Internet.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to inventory, document, and maintain data flows for data that is resident (permanently or temporarily) within the service's geographically distributed (physical and virtual) applications and infrastructure network and systems components and/or shared with other third parties to ascertain any regulatory, statutory, or supply chain agreement (SLA) compliance impact, and to address any other business risks associated with the data. Upon request, provider shall inform customer (tenant) of compliance impact and risk, especially if customer data is used as part of the services.
0	Users shall only be provided with access to the network and network services that they have been specifically authorized to use.	Third-party service providers shall demonstrate compliance with information security and confidentiality, access control, service definitions, and delivery level agreements included in third-party contracts. Third-party reports, records, and services shall undergo audit and review at least annually to govern and maintain compliance with the service delivery agreements.
0	The organization tracks and documents information system security incidents.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for defining and adhering to the retention period of any critical asset as per established policies and procedures, as well as applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance obligations. Backup and recovery measures shall be incorporated as part of business continuity planning and tested accordingly for effectiveness.
0	Assignment of privileges to individuals based on job classification and function.	The provider shall use secure (e.g., non-clear text and authenticated) standardized network protocols for the import and export of data and to manage the service, and shall make available a document to consumers (tenants) detailing the relevant interoperability and portability standards that are involved.
0	• What methods do you use to prevent damage from a fire, flood, earthquake, etc? o In the event of a disaster, what additional security measures are put in place to protect physical access? o Both at the primary as well as at the secondary sites? 	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to triage security-related events and ensure timely and thorough incident management, as per established IT service management policies and procedures.
0	Information security events shall be reported through appropriate management channels as quickly as possible.	The mobile device policy shall require the BYOD user to perform backups of data, prohibit the usage of unapproved application stores, and require the use of anti-malware software (where supported).
0	The organization’s application whitelisting software must ensure that only authorized, digitally signed scripts (such as *.ps1, *.py, macros, etc.) are allowed to run on a system.	Keys must have identifiable owners (binding keys to identities) and there shall be key management policies.
1	Information systems shall be regularly reviewed for compliance with the organization's information security policies and standards.	The BYOD policy shall clarify the systems and servers allowed for use or access on a BYOD-enabled device.
0	Equipment shall be protected from power failures and other disruptions caused by failures in supporting utilities.	Mobile devices connecting to corporate networks, or storing and accessing company information, shall allow for remote software version/patch validation. All mobile devices shall have the latest available security-related patches installed upon general release by the device manufacturer or carrier and authorized IT personnel shall be able to perform these updates remotely.
0	Deliver training to address the skills gap identified to positively impact workforce members’ security behavior.	Policies and procedures shall be established with supporting business processes and technical measures implemented for the secure disposal and complete removal of data from all storage media, ensuring data is not recoverable by any computer forensic means.
0	The organization:  a. Enforces physical access authorizations at [Assignment: organization-defined entry/exit points to the facility where the information system resides] by;    1. Verifying individual access authorizations before granting access to the facility; and    2. Controlling ingress/egress to the facility using [Selection (one or more): [Assignment: organization-defined physical access control systems/devices]; guards];  b. Maintains physical access audit logs for [Assignment: organization-defined entry/exit points];  c. Provides [Assignment: organization-defined security safeguards] to control access to areas within the facility officially designated as publicly accessible;  d. Escorts visitors and monitors visitor activity [Assignment: organization-defined circumstances requiring visitor escorts and monitoring];  e. Secures keys, combinations, and other physical access devices;  f. Inventories [Assignment: organization-defined physical access devices] every [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and  g. Changes combinations and keys [Assignment: organization-defined frequency] and/or when keys are lost, combinations are compromised, or individuals are transferred or terminated.	The BYOD policy and supporting awareness training clearly states the approved applications, application stores, and application extensions and plugins that may be used for BYOD usage.
1	Utilize an up-to-date SCAP-compliant vulnerability scanning tool to automatically scan all systems on the network on a weekly or more frequent basis to identify all potential vulnerabilities on the organization’s systems.	Implementers shall ensure that the security vulnerability assessment tools or services accommodate the virtualization technologies used (e.g., virtualization aware).
0	Install the latest stable version of any securityrelated updates on all network devices.	User access to diagnostic and configuration ports shall be restricted to authorized individuals and applications.
0	Ensure network engineers use a dedicated machine for all administrative tasks or tasks requiring elevated access. This machine shall be segmented from the organization’s primary network and not be allowed Internet access. This machine shall not be used for reading email, composing documents, or surfing the Internet.	All cloud-based services used by the company's mobile devices or BYOD shall be pre-approved for usage and the storage of company business data.
1	Implement physical and/or logical controls to restrict access to publicly accessible network jacks.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to restrict the installation of unauthorized software on organizationally-owned or managed user end-point devices (e.g., issued workstations, laptops, and mobile devices) and IT infrastructure network and systems components.
1	To lower the chance of spoofed or modified emails from valid domains, implement Domainbased Message Authentication, Reporting and Conformance (DMARC) policy and verification, starting by implementing the Sender Policy Framework (SPF) and the Domain Keys Identified Mail (DKIM) standards.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to prevent the execution of malware on organizationally-owned or managed user end-point devices (i.e., issued workstations, laptops, and mobile devices) and IT infrastructure network and systems components.
1	Mobile code shall be authorized before its installation and use, and the configuration shall ensure that the authorized mobile code operates according to a clearly defined security policy. All unauthorized mobile code shall be prevented from executing.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to prevent the execution of malware on organizationally-owned or managed user end-point devices (i.e., issued workstations, laptops, and mobile devices) and IT infrastructure network and systems components.
0	Information security events shall be reported through appropriate communications channels as quickly as possible. All employees, contractors and third-party users shall be made aware of their responsibility to report any information security events as quickly as possible.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for defining and adhering to the retention period of any critical asset as per established policies and procedures, as well as applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance obligations. Backup and recovery measures shall be incorporated as part of business continuity planning and tested accordingly for effectiveness.
0	Control addition, deletion, and modification of user IDs, credentials, and other identifier objects.	Supply chain agreements (e.g., SLAs) between providers and customers (tenants) shall incorporate at least the following mutually-agreed upon provisions and/or terms:  • Scope of business relationship and services offered (e.g., customer (tenant) data acquisition, exchange and usage, feature sets and functionality, personnel and infrastructure network and systems components for service delivery and support, roles and responsibilities of provider and customer (tenant) and any subcontracted or outsourced business relationships, physical geographical location of hosted services, and any known regulatory compliance considerations)  • Information security requirements, provider and customer (tenant) primary points of contact for the duration of the business relationship, and references to detailed supporting and relevant business processes and technical measures implemented to enable effectively governance, risk management, assurance and legal, statutory and regulatory compliance obligations by all impacted business relationships  • Notification and/or pre-authorization of any changes controlled by the provider with customer (tenant) impacts  • Timely notification of a security incident (or confirmed breach) to all customers (tenants) and other business relationships impacted (i.e., up- and down-stream impacted supply chain)  • Assessment and independent verification of compliance with agreement provisions and/or terms (e.g., industry-acceptable certification, attestation audit report, or equivalent forms of assurance) without posing an unacceptable business risk of exposure to the organization being assessed  • Expiration of the business relationship and treatment of customer (tenant) data impacted  • Customer (tenant) service-to-service application (API) and data interoperability and portability requirements for application development and information exchange, usage, and integrity persistence
0	• What changes, if any, are made to administrator privileges and roles to allow for extraordinary access in the event of an emergency?	Policies and procedures shall be established with supporting business processes and technical measures implemented for the secure disposal and complete removal of data from all storage media, ensuring data is not recoverable by any computer forensic means.
1	Detection, prevention and recovery controls to protect against malware shall be implemented, combined with appropriate user awareness.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to restrict the installation of unauthorized software on organizationally-owned or managed user end-point devices (e.g., issued workstations, laptops, and mobile devices) and IT infrastructure network and systems components.
1	Management shall require all employees and contractors to apply information security in accordance with the established policies and procedures of the organization.	Workforce personnel and external business relationships shall be informed of their responsibilities and, if required, shall consent and/or contractually agree to report all information security events in a timely manner. Information security events shall be reported through predefined communications channels in a timely manner adhering to applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance obligations.
0	Use sandboxing to analyze and block inbound email Attachments	Use sandboxing to analyze and block inbound email Attachments
1	The organization develops, documents, and implements a configuration management plan for the information system that:  a. Addresses roles, responsibilities, and configuration management processes and procedures;  b. Establishes a process for identifying configuration items throughout the system development life cycle and for managing the configuration of the configuration items;  c. Defines the configuration items for the information system and places the configuration items under configuration management; and  d. Protects the configuration management plan from unauthorized disclosure and modification.	An inventory of all mobile devices used to store and access company data shall be kept and maintained. All changes to the status of these devices (i.e., operating system and patch levels, lost or decommissioned status, and to whom the device is assigned or approved for usage (BYOD)) will be included for each device in the inventory.
1	The organization:  a. Develops, documents, and disseminates to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]:    1. A security awareness and training policy that addresses purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment, coordination among organizational entities, and compliance; and    2.  Procedures to facilitate the implementation of the security awareness and training policy and associated security awareness and training controls; and  b. Reviews and updates the current:    1. Security awareness and training policy [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and    2.  Security awareness and training procedures [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	Information security policies and procedures shall be established and made readily available for review by all impacted personnel and external business relationships. Information security policies must be authorized by the organization's business leadership (or other accountable business role or function) and supported by a strategic business plan and an information security management program inclusive of defined information security roles and responsibilities for business leadership.
1	Visitors are asked to surrender the badge or identification before leaving the facility or at the date of expiration.	Ingress and egress points such as service areas and other points where unauthorized personnel may enter the premises shall be monitored, controlled and, if possible, isolated from data storage and processing facilities to prevent unauthorized data corruption, compromise, and loss.
0	For systems considered to be not commonly affected by malicious software, perform periodic evaluations to identify and evaluate evolving malware threats in order to confirm whether such systems continue to not require anti-virus software.	Network environments and virtual instances shall be designed and configured to restrict and monitor traffic between trusted and untrusted connections. These configurations shall be reviewed at least annually, and supported by a documented justification for use for all allowed services, protocols, ports, and by compensating controls.
1	Install perimeter firewalls between all wireless networks and the cardholder data environment, and configure these firewalls to deny or, if traffic is necessary for business purposes, permit only authorized traffic between the wireless environment and the cardholder data environment.	Network environments and virtual instances shall be designed and configured to restrict and monitor traffic between trusted and untrusted connections. These configurations shall be reviewed at least annually, and supported by a documented justification for use for all allowed services, protocols, ports, and by compensating controls.
0	• Detail your change control procedure and policy. This should also include the process used to re-assess risks as a result of changes and clarify whether the outputs are available to end customers.	The provider shall use open and published APIs to ensure support for interoperability between components and to facilitate migrating applications.
0	Type of event	Production data shall not be replicated or used in non-production environments. Any use of customer data in non-production environments requires explicit, documented approval from all customers whose data is affected, and must comply with all legal and regulatory requirements for scrubbing of sensitive data elements.
1	Maintain separate environments for production and non-production systems. Developers should not have unmonitored access to production environments.	Production and non-production environments shall be separated to prevent unauthorized access or changes to information assets. Separation of the environments may include: stateful inspection firewalls, domain/realm authentication sources, and clear segregation of duties for personnel accessing these environments as part of their job duties.
0	Management shall require all employees and contractors to apply information security in accordance with the established policies and procedures of the organization.	Upon termination of workforce personnel and/or expiration of external business relationships, all organizationally-owned assets shall be returned within an established period.
0	• Does the system allow for a federated IDM infrastructure which is interoperable both for high assurance (OTP systems, where required) and low assurance (eg. username and password)?	Roles and responsibilities of contractors, employees, and third-party users shall be documented as they relate to information assets and security.
1	Assets maintained in the inventory shall be owned.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to protect wireless network environments, including the following:  • Perimeter firewalls implemented and configured to restrict unauthorized traffic  • Security settings enabled with strong encryption for authentication and transmission, replacing vendor default settings (e.g., encryption keys, passwords, and SNMP community strings)  • User access to wireless network devices restricted to authorized personnel  • The capability to detect the presence of unauthorized (rogue) wireless network devices for a timely disconnect from the network
0	The organization implements [Assignment: organization-defined host-based monitoring mechanisms] at [Assignment: organization-defined information system components].	The organization implements [Assignment: organization-defined host-based monitoring mechanisms] at [Assignment: organization-defined information system components].
0	Systems for managing passwords shall be interactive and shall ensure quality passwords.	Risk assessments associated with data governance requirements shall be conducted at planned intervals and shall consider the following:  • Awareness of where sensitive data is stored and transmitted across applications, databases, servers, and network infrastructure  • Compliance with defined retention periods and end-of-life disposal requirements  • Data classification and protection from unauthorized use, access, loss, destruction, and falsification
0	Utilize centrally managed anti-malware software to continuously monitor and defend each of the organization’s workstations and servers.	Risk assessment results shall include updates to security policies, procedures, standards, and controls to ensure that they remain relevant and effective.
1	Test data shall be selected carefully, protected and controlled.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to ensure the development and/or acquisition of new data, physical or virtual applications, infrastructure network, and systems components, or any corporate, operations and/or data center facilities have been pre-authorized by the organization's business leadership or other accountable business role or function.
1	Deploy Security Information and Event Management (SIEM) or log analytic tool for log correlation and analysis.	Higher levels of assurance are required for protection, retention, and lifecycle management of audit logs, adhering to applicable legal, statutory or regulatory compliance obligations and providing unique user access accountability to detect potentially suspicious network behaviors and/or file integrity anomalies, and to support forensic investigative capabilities in the event of a security breach.
1	Establish, publish, maintain, and disseminate a security policy.	An Information Security Management Program (ISMP) shall be developed, documented, approved, and implemented that includes administrative, technical, and physical safeguards to protect assets and data from loss, misuse, unauthorized access, disclosure, alteration, and destruction. The security program shall include, but not be limited to, the following areas insofar as they relate to the characteristics of the business:  • Risk management  • Security policy  • Organization of information security  • Asset management  • Human resources security  • Physical and environmental security  • Communications and operations management  • Access control  • Information systems acquisition, development, and maintenance
0	An access control policy shall be established, documented and reviewed based on business and information security requirements.	The mobile device policy shall prohibit the circumvention of built-in security controls on mobile devices (e.g., jailbreaking or rooting) and shall enforce the prohibition through detective and preventative controls on the device or through a centralized device management system (e.g., mobile device management).
1	A formal user access provisioning process shall be implemented to assign or revoke access rights for all user types to all systems and services.	User access policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for ensuring appropriate identity, entitlement, and access management for all internal corporate and customer (tenant) users with access to data and organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) application interfaces and infrastructure network and systems components. These policies, procedures, processes, and measures must incorporate the following:  • Procedures, supporting roles, and responsibilities for provisioning and de-provisioning user account entitlements following the rule of least privilege based on job function (e.g., internal employee and contingent staff personnel changes, customer-controlled access, suppliers' business relationships, or other third-party business relationships)  • Business case considerations for higher levels of assurance and multi-factor authentication secrets (e.g., management interfaces, key generation, remote access, segregation of duties, emergency access, large-scale provisioning or geographically-distributed deployments, and personnel redundancy for critical systems)  • Access segmentation to sessions and data in multi-tenant architectures by any third party (e.g., provider and/or other customer (tenant))  • Identity trust verification and service-to-service application (API) and information processing interoperability (e.g., SSO and federation)  • Account credential lifecycle management from instantiation through revocation  • Account credential and/or identity store minimization or re-use when feasible  • Authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules for access to data and sessions (e.g., encryption and strong/multi-factor, expireable, non-shared authentication secrets)  • Permissions and supporting capabilities for customer (tenant) controls over authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules for access to data and sessions  • Adherence to applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance requirements
0	Inactive sessions shall shut down after a defined period of inactivity.	Data and objects containing data shall be assigned a classification by the data owner based on data type, value, sensitivity, and criticality to the organization.
1	The information system separates user functionality (including user interface services) from information system management functionality.	User access policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for ensuring appropriate identity, entitlement, and access management for all internal corporate and customer (tenant) users with access to data and organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) application interfaces and infrastructure network and systems components. These policies, procedures, processes, and measures must incorporate the following:  • Procedures, supporting roles, and responsibilities for provisioning and de-provisioning user account entitlements following the rule of least privilege based on job function (e.g., internal employee and contingent staff personnel changes, customer-controlled access, suppliers' business relationships, or other third-party business relationships)  • Business case considerations for higher levels of assurance and multi-factor authentication secrets (e.g., management interfaces, key generation, remote access, segregation of duties, emergency access, large-scale provisioning or geographically-distributed deployments, and personnel redundancy for critical systems)  • Access segmentation to sessions and data in multi-tenant architectures by any third party (e.g., provider and/or other customer (tenant))  • Identity trust verification and service-to-service application (API) and information processing interoperability (e.g., SSO and federation)  • Account credential lifecycle management from instantiation through revocation  • Account credential and/or identity store minimization or re-use when feasible  • Authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules for access to data and sessions (e.g., encryption and strong/multi-factor, expireable, non-shared authentication secrets)  • Permissions and supporting capabilities for customer (tenant) controls over authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules for access to data and sessions  • Adherence to applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance requirements
0	Retain audit trail history for at least one year, with a minimum of three months immediately available for analysis (for example, online, archived, or restorable from backup).	An Information Security Management Program (ISMP) shall be developed, documented, approved, and implemented that includes administrative, technical, and physical safeguards to protect assets and data from loss, misuse, unauthorized access, disclosure, alteration, and destruction. The security program shall include, but not be limited to, the following areas insofar as they relate to the characteristics of the business:  • Risk management  • Security policy  • Organization of information security  • Asset management  • Human resources security  • Physical and environmental security  • Communications and operations management  • Access control  • Information systems acquisition, development, and maintenance
1	The organization:  a. Establishes usage restrictions, configuration/connection requirements, and implementation guidance for wireless access; and  b. Authorizes wireless access to the information system prior to allowing such connections.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to protect wireless network environments, including the following:  • Perimeter firewalls implemented and configured to restrict unauthorized traffic  • Security settings enabled with strong encryption for authentication and transmission, replacing vendor default settings (e.g., encryption keys, passwords, and SNMP community strings)  • User access to wireless network devices restricted to authorized personnel  • The capability to detect the presence of unauthorized (rogue) wireless network devices for a timely disconnect from the network
0	The allocation of secret authentication information shall be controlled through a formal management process.	All cloud-based services used by the company's mobile devices or BYOD shall be pre-approved for usage and the storage of company business data.
1	Utilize centrally managed anti-malware software to continuously monitor and defend each of the organization’s workstations and servers.	All mobile devices permitted for use through the company BYOD program or a company-assigned mobile device shall allow for remote wipe by the company's corporate IT or shall have all company-provided data wiped by the company's corporate IT.
1	Limit access to system components and cardholder data to only those individuals whose job requires such access.	Policies and procedures are established for permissible storage and access of identities used for authentication to ensure identities are only accessible based on rules of least privilege and replication limitation only to users explicitly defined as business necessary.
1	The allocation of secret authentication information shall be controlled through a formal management process.	Policies and procedures are established for permissible storage and access of identities used for authentication to ensure identities are only accessible based on rules of least privilege and replication limitation only to users explicitly defined as business necessary.
0	The organization manages individual identifiers by uniquely identifying each individual as [Assignment: organization-defined characteristic identifying individual status].	Pursuant to local laws, regulations, ethics, and contractual constraints, all employment candidates, contractors, and third parties shall be subject to background verification proportional to the data classification to be accessed, the business requirements, and acceptable risk.
1	Information security events shall be reported through appropriate communications channels as quickly as possible. All employees, contractors and third-party users shall be made aware of their responsibility to report any information security events as quickly as possible.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to triage security-related events and ensure timely and thorough incident management, as per established IT service management policies and procedures.
0	Deploy system configuration management tools that will automatically enforce and redeploy configuration settings to systems at regularly scheduled intervals.	Policies, procedures, and mutually-agreed upon provisions and/or terms shall be established to satisfy customer (tenant) requirements for service-to-service application (API) and information processing interoperability, and portability for application development and information exchange, usage, and integrity persistence.
0	For personnel accessing cardholder data via remote-access technologies, prohibit the copying, moving, and storage of cardholder data onto local hard drives and removable electronic media, unless explicitly authorized for a defined business need.	Organizations shall create and maintain a control framework which captures standards, regulatory, legal, and statutory requirements relevant for their business needs. The control framework shall be reviewed at least annually to ensure changes that could affect the business processes are reflected.
1	Managers shall regularly review the compliance of information processing and procedures within their area of responsibility with the appropriate security policies, standards and any other security requirements.	The provider shall have a documented mobile device policy that includes a documented definition for mobile devices and the acceptable usage and requirements for all mobile devices. The provider shall post and communicate the policy and requirements through the company's security awareness and training program.
0	Maintain an inventory of all accounts organized by authentication system.	Maintain an inventory of all accounts organized by authentication system.
1	Managers shall regularly review the compliance of information processing and procedures within their area of responsibility with the appropriate security policies, standards and any other security requirements.	A documented list of approved application stores has been defined as acceptable for mobile devices accessing or storing provider managed data.
0	Uninstall or disable any unauthorized browser or email client plugins or add-on applications.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to manage business risks associated with permitting mobile device access to corporate resources and may require the implementation of higher assurance compensating controls and acceptable-use policies and procedures (e.g., mandated security training, stronger identity, entitlement and access controls, and device monitoring).
0	The information system terminates the network connection associated with a communications session at the end of the session or after [Assignment: organization-defined time period] of inactivity. Supplemental Guidance:  This control applies to both internal and external networks. Terminating network connections associated with communications sessions include, for example, de-allocating associated TCP/IP address/port pairs at the operating system level, or de-allocating networking assignments at the application level if multiple application sessions are using a single, operating system-level network connection. Time periods of inactivity may be established by organizations and include, for example, time periods by type of network access or for specific network accesses. Control Enhancements:  None.	The information system terminates the network connection associated with a communications session at the end of the session or after [Assignment: organization-defined time period] of inactivity. Supplemental Guidance:  This control applies to both internal and external networks. Terminating network connections associated with communications sessions include, for example, de-allocating associated TCP/IP address/port pairs at the operating system level, or de-allocating networking assignments at the application level if multiple application sessions are using a single, operating system-level network connection. Time periods of inactivity may be established by organizations and include, for example, time periods by type of network access or for specific network accesses. Control Enhancements:  None.
1	The organization:  a. Develops, documents, and disseminates to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]:    1. An incident response policy that addresses purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment, coordination among organizational entities, and compliance; and    2. Procedures to facilitate the implementation of the incident response policy and associated incident response controls; and  b. Reviews and updates the current:    1. Incident response policy [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and    2. Incident response procedures [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	Information security policies and procedures shall be established and made readily available for review by all impacted personnel and external business relationships. Information security policies must be authorized by the organization's business leadership (or other accountable business role or function) and supported by a strategic business plan and an information security management program inclusive of defined information security roles and responsibilities for business leadership.
0	Deploy Security Information and Event Management (SIEM) or log analytic tool for log correlation and analysis.	The provider shall have a documented mobile device policy that includes a documented definition for mobile devices and the acceptable usage and requirements for all mobile devices. The provider shall post and communicate the policy and requirements through the company's security awareness and training program.
1	Address common coding vulnerabilities in software-development processes as follows:  Train developers at least annually in up- to-date secure coding techniques, including how to avoid common coding vulnerabilities.  Develop applications based on secure coding guidelines.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting processes and technical measures implemented, for timely detection of vulnerabilities within organizationally-owned or managed applications, infrastructure network and system components (e.g., network vulnerability assessment, penetration testing) to ensure the efficiency of implemented security controls. A risk-based model for prioritizing remediation of identified vulnerabilities shall be used. Changes shall be managed through a change management process for all vendor-supplied patches, configuration changes, or changes to the organization's internally developed software. Upon request, the provider informs customer (tenant) of policies and procedures and identified weaknesses especially if customer (tenant) data is used as part the service and/or customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of control.
0	The organization: a. Facilitates information sharing by enabling authorized users to determine whether access authorizations assigned to the sharing partner match the access restrictions on the information for [Assignment: organization-defined information sharing circumstances where user discretion is required]; and b. Employs [Assignment: organization-defined automated mechanisms or manual processes] to assist users in making information sharing/collaboration decisions.   Supplemental Guidance: This control applies to information that may be restricted in some manner (e.g., privileged medical information, contract-sensitive information, proprietary information, personally identifiable information, classified information related to special access programs or compartments) based on some formal or administrative determination. Depending on the particular information-sharing circumstances, sharing partners may be defined at the individual, group, or organizational level. Information may be defined by content, type, security category, or special access program/compartment. Related control: AC-3.	Mechanisms shall be put in place to monitor and quantify the types, volumes, and costs of information security incidents.
1	All relevant legislative statutory, regulatory, contractual requirements and the organization's approach to meet these requirements shall be explicitly identified, documented and kept up to date for each information system and the organization.	Changes to mobile device operating systems, patch levels, and/or applications shall be managed through the company's change management processes.
0	Information systems shall be regularly checked for compliance with security implementation standards.	Each operating system shall be hardened to provide only necessary ports, protocols, and services to meet business needs and have in place supporting technical controls such as: antivirus, file integrity monitoring, and logging as part of their baseline operating build standard or template.
1	The organization:  a. Separates [Assignment: organization-defined duties of individuals];  b. Documents separation of duties of individuals; and  c. Defines information system access authorizations to support separation of duties.	User access policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for restricting user access as per defined segregation of duties to address business risks associated with a user-role conflict of interest.
0	To ensure correct and secure operations of information processing facilities.	The identification, assessment, and prioritization of risks posed by business processes requiring third-party access to the organization's information systems and data shall be followed by coordinated application of resources to minimize, monitor, and measure likelihood and impact of unauthorized or inappropriate access. Compensating controls derived from the risk analysis shall be implemented prior to provisioning access.
0	Information security incidents shall be responded to in accordance with the documented procedures.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for appropriate IT governance and service management to ensure appropriate planning, delivery, and support of the organization's IT capabilities supporting business functions, workforce, and/or customers based on industry acceptable standards (i.e., ITIL v4 and COBIT 5). Additionally, policies and procedures shall include defined roles and responsibilities supported by regular workforce training.
0	The organization approves, controls, and monitors information system maintenance tools.	The provider shall use an industry-recognized virtualization platform and standard virtualization formats (e.g., OVF) to help ensure interoperability, and shall have documented custom changes made to any hypervisor in use and all solution-specific virtualization hooks available for customer review.
1	Encrypt all sensitive information in transit.	Policies and procedures shall be established for the management of cryptographic keys in the service's cryptosystem (e.g., lifecycle management from key generation to revocation and replacement, public key infrastructure, cryptographic protocol design and algorithms used, access controls in place for secure key generation, and exchange and storage including segregation of keys used for encrypted data or sessions). Upon request, provider shall inform the customer (tenant) of changes within the cryptosystem, especially if the customer (tenant) data is used as part of the service, and/or the customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of the control.
1	A formal user access provisioning process shall be implemented to assign or revoke access rights for all user types to all systems and services.	The identification, assessment, and prioritization of risks posed by business processes requiring third-party access to the organization's information systems and data shall be followed by coordinated application of resources to minimize, monitor, and measure likelihood and impact of unauthorized or inappropriate access. Compensating controls derived from the risk analysis shall be implemented prior to provisioning access.
0	Compare all network device configuration against approved security configurations defined for each network device in use and alert when any deviations are discovered.	The mobile device policy shall prohibit the circumvention of built-in security controls on mobile devices (e.g., jailbreaking or rooting) and shall enforce the prohibition through detective and preventative controls on the device or through a centralized device management system (e.g., mobile device management).
1	When operating platforms are changed, business critical applications shall be reviewed and tested to ensure there is no adverse impact on organizational operations or security.	The provider shall use open and published APIs to ensure support for interoperability between components and to facilitate migrating applications.
0	The organization:  a. Develops, documents, and disseminates to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]:    1. A media protection policy that addresses purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment, coordination among organizational entities, and compliance; and    2. Procedures to facilitate the implementation of the media protection policy and associated media protection controls; and  b. Reviews and updates the current:    1. Media protection policy [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and    2. Media protection procedures [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	Upon termination of workforce personnel and/or expiration of external business relationships, all organizationally-owned assets shall be returned within an established period.
1	The organization: (a) Establishes and administers privileged user accounts in accordance with a role-based access scheme that organizes allowed information system access and privileges into roles; (b) Monitors privileged role assignments; and (c) Takes [Assignment: organization-defined actions] when privileged role assignments are no longer appropriate.	Access to the organization's own developed applications, program, or object source code, or any other form of intellectual property (IP), and use of proprietary software shall be appropriately restricted following the rule of least privilege based on job function as per established user access policies and procedures.
1	The organization establishes terms and conditions, consistent with any trust relationships established with other organizations owning, operating, and/or maintaining external information systems, allowing authorized individuals to:  a. Access the information system from external information systems; and  b. Process, store, or transmit organization-controlled information using external information systems.	All cloud-based services used by the company's mobile devices or BYOD shall be pre-approved for usage and the storage of company business data.
0	The organization:  a. Determines that the information system is capable of auditing the following events: [Assignment: organization-defined auditable events];  b. Coordinates the security audit function with other organizational entities requiring audit- related information to enhance mutual support and to help guide the selection of auditable events;  c. Provides a rationale for why the auditable events are deemed to be adequate to support after- the-fact investigations of security incidents; and  d. Determines that the following events are to be audited within the information system: [Assignment: organization-defined audited events (the subset of the auditable events defined in AU-2 a.) along with the frequency of (or situation requiring) auditing for each identified event].	Pursuant to local laws, regulations, ethics, and contractual constraints, all employment candidates, contractors, and third parties shall be subject to background verification proportional to the data classification to be accessed, the business requirements, and acceptable risk.
1	Review logs and security events for all system components to identify anomalies or suspicious activity.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to restrict the installation of unauthorized software on organizationally-owned or managed user end-point devices (e.g., issued workstations, laptops, and mobile devices) and IT infrastructure network and systems components.
1	Asset owners shall review users' access rights at regular intervals.	Policies and procedures shall be established to store and manage identity information about every person who accesses IT infrastructure and to determine their level of access. Policies shall also be developed to control access to network resources based on user identity.
0	Test data shall be selected carefully, and protected and controlled in non-production environments.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for appropriate IT governance and service management to ensure appropriate planning, delivery, and support of the organization's IT capabilities supporting business functions, workforce, and/or customers based on industry acceptable standards (i.e., ITIL v4 and COBIT 5). Additionally, policies and procedures shall include defined roles and responsibilities supported by regular workforce training.
0	Formal exchange policies, procedures, and controls shall be in place to protect the exchange of information through the use of all types of communication mediums.	Providers shall review the risk management and governance processes of their partners so that practices are consistent and aligned to account for risks inherited from other members of that partner's cloud supply chain.
0	Address common coding vulnerabilities in software-development processes as follows:  Train developers at least annually in up- to-date secure coding techniques, including how to avoid common coding vulnerabilities.  Develop applications based on secure coding guidelines.	Information system documentation (e.g., administrator and user guides, and architecture diagrams) shall be made available to authorized personnel to ensure the following:  • Configuring, installing, and operating the information system  • Effectively using the system’s security features
1	A policy on the use of cryptographic controls for protection of information shall be developed and implemented.	Supply chain agreements (e.g., SLAs) between providers and customers (tenants) shall incorporate at least the following mutually-agreed upon provisions and/or terms:  • Scope of business relationship and services offered (e.g., customer (tenant) data acquisition, exchange and usage, feature sets and functionality, personnel and infrastructure network and systems components for service delivery and support, roles and responsibilities of provider and customer (tenant) and any subcontracted or outsourced business relationships, physical geographical location of hosted services, and any known regulatory compliance considerations)  • Information security requirements, provider and customer (tenant) primary points of contact for the duration of the business relationship, and references to detailed supporting and relevant business processes and technical measures implemented to enable effectively governance, risk management, assurance and legal, statutory and regulatory compliance obligations by all impacted business relationships  • Notification and/or pre-authorization of any changes controlled by the provider with customer (tenant) impacts  • Timely notification of a security incident (or confirmed breach) to all customers (tenants) and other business relationships impacted (i.e., up- and down-stream impacted supply chain)  • Assessment and independent verification of compliance with agreement provisions and/or terms (e.g., industry-acceptable certification, attestation audit report, or equivalent forms of assurance) without posing an unacceptable business risk of exposure to the organization being assessed  • Expiration of the business relationship and treatment of customer (tenant) data impacted  • Customer (tenant) service-to-service application (API) and data interoperability and portability requirements for application development and information exchange, usage, and integrity persistence
0	To retain PII no longer than necessary to fulfill the stated purpose(s) or to abide by applicable laws.	To retain PII no longer than necessary to fulfill the stated purpose(s) or to abide by applicable laws.
0	Monitor and analyze security alerts and information, and distribute to appropriate personnel.	A security awareness training program shall be established for all contractors, third-party users, and employees of the organization and mandated when appropriate. All individuals with access to organizational data shall receive appropriate awareness training and regular updates in organizational procedures, processes, and policies relating to their professional function relative to the organization.
0	Physical protection against damage from fire, flood, earthquake, explosion, civil unrest, and other forms of natural or man-made disaster shall be designed and applied.	Multi-tenant organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) applications, and infrastructure system and network components, shall be designed, developed, deployed, and configured such that provider and customer (tenant) user access is appropriately segmented from other tenant users, based on the following considerations:  • Established policies and procedures  • Isolation of business critical assets and/or sensitive user data, and sessions that mandate stronger internal controls and high levels of assurance  • Compliance with legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations
1	The organization:  a. Develops, documents, and disseminates to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]:    1. A personnel security policy that addresses purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment, coordination among organizational entities, and compliance; and    2. Procedures to facilitate the implementation of the personnel security policy and associated personnel security controls; and  b. Reviews and updates the current:    1. Personnel security policy [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and    2. Personnel security procedures [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	All personnel shall be made aware of their roles and responsibilities for:  • Maintaining awareness and compliance with established policies and procedures and applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance obligations.  • Maintaining a safe and secure working environment
0	When operating platforms are changed, business critical applications shall be reviewed and tested to ensure there is no adverse impact on organizational operations or security.	The availability, quality, and adequate capacity and resources shall be planned, prepared, and measured to deliver the required system performance in accordance with legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations. Projections of future capacity requirements shall be made to mitigate the risk of system overload.
0	The organization permits authorized individuals to use an external information system to access the information system or to process, store, or transmit organization-controlled information only when the organization:  (a)   Verifies the implementation of required security controls on the external system as specified in the organization’s information security policy and security plan; or  (b)   Retains approved information system connection or processing agreements with the organizational entity hosting the external information system.	User access to diagnostic and configuration ports shall be restricted to authorized individuals and applications.
1	Management shall require employees, and where applicable, contractors and third-party users, to apply security in accordance with established policies and procedures of the organization.	The BYOD policy and supporting awareness training clearly states the approved applications, application stores, and application extensions and plugins that may be used for BYOD usage.
0	Managers shall regularly review the compliance of information processing and procedures within their area of responsibility with the appropriate security policies, standards and any other security requirements.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for equipment maintenance ensuring continuity and availability of operations and support personnel.
0	Protect audit trail files from unauthorized modifications.	The availability, quality, and adequate capacity and resources shall be planned, prepared, and measured to deliver the required system performance in accordance with legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations. Projections of future capacity requirements shall be made to mitigate the risk of system overload.
1	Store secret and private keys used to encrypt/decrypt cardholder data in one (or more) of the following forms at all times:  Encrypted with a key-encrypting key that is at least as strong as the data- encrypting key, and that is stored separately from the data-encrypting key  Within a secure cryptographic device (such as a hardware (host) security module (HSM) or PTS-approved point-of-interaction device)  As at least two full-length key components or key shares, in accordance with an industry- accepted method	Physical protection against damage from natural causes and disasters, as well as deliberate attacks, including fire, flood, atmospheric electrical discharge, solar induced geomagnetic storm, wind, earthquake, tsunami, explosion, nuclear accident, volcanic activity, biological hazard, civil unrest, mudslide, tectonic activity, and other forms of natural or man-made disaster shall be anticipated, designed, and have countermeasures applied.
1	Risk Assessments shall be performed to identify and quantify risks.	Risk assessments associated with data governance requirements shall be conducted at planned intervals and shall consider the following:  • Awareness of where sensitive data is stored and transmitted across applications, databases, servers, and network infrastructure  • Compliance with defined retention periods and end-of-life disposal requirements  • Data classification and protection from unauthorized use, access, loss, destruction, and falsification
0	The organization:  a. Develops, documents, and disseminates to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]:    1. A media protection policy that addresses purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment, coordination among organizational entities, and compliance; and    2. Procedures to facilitate the implementation of the media protection policy and associated media protection controls; and  b. Reviews and updates the current:    1. Media protection policy [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and    2. Media protection procedures [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	User access policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for ensuring appropriate identity, entitlement, and access management for all internal corporate and customer (tenant) users with access to data and organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) application interfaces and infrastructure network and systems components. These policies, procedures, processes, and measures must incorporate the following:  • Procedures, supporting roles, and responsibilities for provisioning and de-provisioning user account entitlements following the rule of least privilege based on job function (e.g., internal employee and contingent staff personnel changes, customer-controlled access, suppliers' business relationships, or other third-party business relationships)  • Business case considerations for higher levels of assurance and multi-factor authentication secrets (e.g., management interfaces, key generation, remote access, segregation of duties, emergency access, large-scale provisioning or geographically-distributed deployments, and personnel redundancy for critical systems)  • Access segmentation to sessions and data in multi-tenant architectures by any third party (e.g., provider and/or other customer (tenant))  • Identity trust verification and service-to-service application (API) and information processing interoperability (e.g., SSO and federation)  • Account credential lifecycle management from instantiation through revocation  • Account credential and/or identity store minimization or re-use when feasible  • Authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules for access to data and sessions (e.g., encryption and strong/multi-factor, expireable, non-shared authentication secrets)  • Permissions and supporting capabilities for customer (tenant) controls over authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules for access to data and sessions  • Adherence to applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance requirements
0	Activation of remote-access technologies for vendors and business partners only when needed by vendors and business partners, with immediate deactivation after use	Protection measures shall be put into place to react to natural and man-made threats based upon a geographically-specific business impact assessment.
1	The organization:  a. Manages the information system using [Assignment: organization-defined system development life cycle] that incorporates information security considerations;  b. Defines and documents information security roles and responsibilities throughout the system development life cycle;  c. Identifies individuals having information security roles and responsibilities; and  d. Integrates the organizational information security risk management process into system development life cycle activities.	Applications and programming interfaces (APIs) shall be designed, developed, deployed, and tested in accordance with leading industry standards (e.g., OWASP for web applications) and adhere to applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance obligations.
0	The information system at managed interfaces denies network communications traffic by default and allows network communications traffic by exception (i.e., deny all, permit by exception).	Mobile devices connecting to corporate networks, or storing and accessing company information, shall allow for remote software version/patch validation. All mobile devices shall have the latest available security-related patches installed upon general release by the device manufacturer or carrier and authorized IT personnel shall be able to perform these updates remotely.
0	o Does the provider have a formal process in place for detecting, identifying, analyzing and responding to incidents?	The provider shall use an industry-recognized virtualization platform and standard virtualization formats (e.g., OVF) to help ensure interoperability, and shall have documented custom changes made to any hypervisor in use and all solution-specific virtualization hooks available for customer review.
1	Information systems shall be regularly reviewed for compliance with the organization's information security policies and standards.	Access to all hypervisor management functions or administrative consoles for systems hosting virtualized systems shall be restricted to personnel based upon the principle of least privilege and supported through technical controls (e.g., two-factor authentication, audit trails, IP address filtering, firewalls, and TLS encapsulated communications to the administrative consoles).
1	o Are assets classified in terms of sensitivity and criticality? o If so, does the provider employ appropriate segregation between systems with different classifications and for a single customer who has systems with different security classifications? 	Policies and procedures shall be established for the secure disposal of equipment (by asset type) used outside the organization's premises. This shall include a wiping solution or destruction process that renders recovery of information impossible. The erasure shall consist of a full overwrite of the drive to ensure that the erased drive is released to inventory for reuse and deployment, or securely stored until it can be destroyed.
0	The information system:  a. Provides audit record generation capability for the auditable events defined in AU-2 a. at [Assignment: organization-defined information system components];  b. Allows [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles] to select which auditable events are to be audited by specific components of the information system; and  c.    Generates audit records for the events defined in AU-2 d. with the content defined in AU-3. 	Organizations shall create and maintain a control framework which captures standards, regulatory, legal, and statutory requirements relevant for their business needs. The control framework shall be reviewed at least annually to ensure changes that could affect the business processes are reflected.
0	To provide any amendment, correction or removal to PII processors and third parties to whom personal data had been disclosed.	To provide any amendment, correction or removal to PII processors and third parties to whom personal data had been disclosed.
0	Use vulnerability scanning and penetration testing tools in concert. The results of vulnerability scanning assessments should be used as a starting point to guide and focus penetration testing efforts.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for equipment maintenance ensuring continuity and availability of operations and support personnel.
0	Insecure communications	Baseline security requirements shall be established for developed or acquired, organizationally-owned or managed, physical or virtual, applications and infrastructure system and network components that comply with applicable legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations. Deviations from standard baseline configurations must be authorized following change management policies and procedures prior to deployment, provisioning, or use. Compliance with security baseline requirements must be reassessed at least annually unless an alternate frequency has been established and authorized based on business needs.
0	The information system, for PKI-based authentication:  (a)   Validates certifications by constructing and verifying a certification path to an accepted trust anchor including checking certificate status information;  (b)   Enforces authorized access to the corresponding private key;  (c)   Maps the authenticated identity to the account of the individual or group; and  (d)   Implements a local cache of revocation data to support path discovery and validation in case of inability to access revocation information via the network.	Policies and procedures shall be established for the management of cryptographic keys in the service's cryptosystem (e.g., lifecycle management from key generation to revocation and replacement, public key infrastructure, cryptographic protocol design and algorithms used, access controls in place for secure key generation, and exchange and storage including segregation of keys used for encrypted data or sessions). Upon request, provider shall inform the customer (tenant) of changes within the cryptosystem, especially if the customer (tenant) data is used as part of the service, and/or the customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of the control.
0	Establish an access control system(s) for systems components that restricts access based on a user’s need to know, and is set to “deny all” unless specifically allowed.	A consistent unified framework for business continuity planning and plan development shall be established, documented, and adopted to ensure all business continuity plans are consistent in addressing priorities for testing, maintenance, and information security requirements.  Requirements for business continuity plans include the following:  • Defined purpose and scope, aligned with relevant dependencies  • Accessible to and understood by those who will use them  • Owned by a named person(s) who is responsible for their review, update, and approval  • Defined lines of communication, roles, and responsibilities  • Detailed recovery procedures, manual work-around, and reference information  • Method for plan invocation
1	Deliver training to address the skills gap identified to positively impact workforce members’ security behavior.	A security awareness training program shall be established for all contractors, third-party users, and employees of the organization and mandated when appropriate. All individuals with access to organizational data shall receive appropriate awareness training and regular updates in organizational procedures, processes, and policies relating to their professional function relative to the organization.
0	Records shall be protected from loss, destruction, falsification, unauthorized access and unauthorized release, in accordance with legislator^ regulatory, contractual and business requirements.	The BYOD policy shall clarify the systems and servers allowed for use or access on a BYOD-enabled device.
1	All relevant information security requirements shall be established and agreed with each supplier that may access, process, store, communicate, or provide IT infrastructure components for, the organization's information.	Business-critical or customer (tenant) impacting (physical and virtual) application and system-system interface (API) designs and configurations, and infrastructure network and systems components, shall be designed, developed, and deployed in accordance with mutually agreed-upon service and capacity-level expectations, as well as IT governance and service management policies and procedures.
1	The organization:  a. Conducts an assessment of risk, including the likelihood and magnitude of harm, from the unauthorized access, use, disclosure, disruption, modification, or destruction of the information system and the information it processes, stores, or transmits;  b. Documents risk assessment results in [Selection: security plan; risk assessment report; [Assignment: organization-defined document]];  c. Reviews risk assessment results [Assignment: organization-defined frequency];  d. Disseminates risk assessment results to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]; and  e. Updates the risk assessment [Assignment: organization-defined frequency] or whenever there are significant changes to the information system or environment of operation (including the identification of new threats and vulnerabilities), or other conditions that may impact the security state of the system.	Providers shall review the risk management and governance processes of their partners so that practices are consistent and aligned to account for risks inherited from other members of that partner's cloud supply chain.
0	Privacy and protection of personally identifiable information shall be ensured as required in relevant legislation and regulation where applicable.	Pursuant to local laws, regulations, ethics, and contractual constraints, all employment candidates, contractors, and third parties shall be subject to background verification proportional to the data classification to be accessed, the business requirements, and acceptable risk.
0	Ensure that all users with administrative account access use a dedicated or secondary account for elevated activities. This account should only be used for administrative activities and not internet browsing, email, or similar activities.	Data center utilities services and environmental conditions (e.g., water, power, temperature and humidity controls, telecommunications, and internet connectivity) shall be secured, monitored, maintained, and tested for continual effectiveness at planned intervals to ensure protection from unauthorized interception or damage, and designed with automated fail-over or other redundancies in the event of planned or unplanned disruptions.
1	A policy on the use of cryptographic controls for protection of information shall be developed and implemented.	Data input and output integrity routines (i.e., reconciliation and edit checks) shall be implemented for application interfaces and databases to prevent manual or systematic processing errors, corruption of data, or misuse.
1	Implement audit trails to link all access to system components to each individual user.	Higher levels of assurance are required for protection, retention, and lifecycle management of audit logs, adhering to applicable legal, statutory or regulatory compliance obligations and providing unique user access accountability to detect potentially suspicious network behaviors and/or file integrity anomalies, and to support forensic investigative capabilities in the event of a security breach.
0	The organization provides the capability to expeditiously disconnect or disable remote access to the information system within [Assignment: organization-defined time period].	The organization provides the capability to expeditiously disconnect or disable remote access to the information system within [Assignment: organization-defined time period].
0	Restrict each entity’s access and privileges to its own cardholder data environment only.	The company shall have a documented policy prohibiting the installation of non-approved applications or approved applications not obtained through a pre-identified application store.
0	Utilize an up-to-date SCAP-compliant vulnerability scanning tool to automatically scan all systems on the network on a weekly or more frequent basis to identify all potential vulnerabilities on the organization’s systems.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to inventory, document, and maintain data flows for data that is resident (permanently or temporarily) within the service's geographically distributed (physical and virtual) applications and infrastructure network and systems components and/or shared with other third parties to ascertain any regulatory, statutory, or supply chain agreement (SLA) compliance impact, and to address any other business risks associated with the data. Upon request, provider shall inform customer (tenant) of compliance impact and risk, especially if customer data is used as part of the services.
1	All information security responsibilities shall be defined and allocated.	Organizations shall follow a defined quality change control and testing process (e.g., ITIL Service Management) with established baselines, testing, and release standards that focus on system availability, confidentiality, and integrity of systems and services.
1	Utilize centrally managed anti-malware software to continuously monitor and defend each of the organization’s workstations and servers.	The provider shall have a documented mobile device policy that includes a documented definition for mobile devices and the acceptable usage and requirements for all mobile devices. The provider shall post and communicate the policy and requirements through the company's security awareness and training program.
0	Shred, incinerate, or pulp hard- copy materials so that cardholder data cannot be reconstructed. Secure storage containers used for materials that are to be destroyed.	Organizations shall create and maintain a control framework which captures standards, regulatory, legal, and statutory requirements relevant for their business needs. The control framework shall be reviewed at least annually to ensure changes that could affect the business processes are reflected.
0	Passwords/passphrases must meet the following:  Require a minimum length of at least seven characters.  Contain both numeric and alphabetic characters.Alternatively, the passwords/ passphrases must have complexity and strength at least equivalent to the parameters specified above.	Mobile devices connecting to corporate networks, or storing and accessing company information, shall allow for remote software version/patch validation. All mobile devices shall have the latest available security-related patches installed upon general release by the device manufacturer or carrier and authorized IT personnel shall be able to perform these updates remotely.
1	A formal user access provisioning process shall be implemented to assign or revoke access rights for all user types to all systems and services.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to protect wireless network environments, including the following:  • Perimeter firewalls implemented and configured to restrict unauthorized traffic  • Security settings enabled with strong encryption for authentication and transmission, replacing vendor default settings (e.g., encryption keys, passwords, and SNMP community strings)  • User access to wireless network devices restricted to authorized personnel  • The capability to detect the presence of unauthorized (rogue) wireless network devices for a timely disconnect from the network
0	Require multi-factor authentication for all user accounts, on all systems, whether managed on-site or by a thirdparty provider.	Physical security perimeters (e.g., fences, walls, barriers, guards, gates, electronic surveillance, physical authentication mechanisms, reception desks, and security patrols) shall be implemented to safeguard sensitive data and information systems.
0	Information involved in application services passing over public networks shall be protected from fraudulent activity, contract dispute and unauthorized disclosure and modification.	The BYOD policy shall define the device and eligibility requirements to allow for BYOD usage.
1	The organization:  a. Develops, documents, and disseminates to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]:    1. A media protection policy that addresses purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment, coordination among organizational entities, and compliance; and    2. Procedures to facilitate the implementation of the media protection policy and associated media protection controls; and  b. Reviews and updates the current:    1. Media protection policy [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and    2. Media protection procedures [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for appropriate IT governance and service management to ensure appropriate planning, delivery, and support of the organization's IT capabilities supporting business functions, workforce, and/or customers based on industry acceptable standards (i.e., ITIL v4 and COBIT 5). Additionally, policies and procedures shall include defined roles and responsibilities supported by regular workforce training.
1	Secure audit trails so they cannot be altered.	Higher levels of assurance are required for protection, retention, and lifecycle management of audit logs, adhering to applicable legal, statutory or regulatory compliance obligations and providing unique user access accountability to detect potentially suspicious network behaviors and/or file integrity anomalies, and to support forensic investigative capabilities in the event of a security breach.
1	Secure areas shall be protected by appropriate entry controls to ensure that only authorized personnel are allowed access.	Physical access to information assets and functions by users and support personnel shall be restricted.
0	Deny communications with known malicious or unused Internet IP addresses and limit access only to trusted and necessary IP address ranges at each of the organization’s network boundaries.	Roles and responsibilities of contractors, employees, and third-party users shall be documented as they relate to information assets and security.
0	Deploy network-based Intrusion Prevention Systems (IPS) to block malicious network traffic at each of the organization’s network boundaries.	BYOD and/or company-owned devices are configured to require an automatic lockout screen, and the requirement shall be enforced through technical controls.
1	Deny communications with known malicious or unused Internet IP addresses and limit access only to trusted and necessary IP address ranges at each of the organization’s network boundaries.	Network environments and virtual instances shall be designed and configured to restrict and monitor traffic between trusted and untrusted connections. These configurations shall be reviewed at least annually, and supported by a documented justification for use for all allowed services, protocols, ports, and by compensating controls.
0	Establish a process to accept and address reports of software vulnerabilities, including providing a means for external entities to contact your security group.	Establish a process to accept and address reports of software vulnerabilities, including providing a means for external entities to contact your security group.
1	The organization plans for the resumption of essential missions and business functions within [Assignment: organization-defined time period] of contingency plan activation.	There shall be a defined and documented method for determining the impact of any disruption to the organization (cloud provider, cloud consumer) that must incorporate the following:  • Identify critical products and services  • Identify all dependencies, including processes, applications, business partners, and third party service providers  • Understand threats to critical products and services  • Determine impacts resulting from planned or unplanned disruptions and how these vary over time  • Establish the maximum tolerable period for disruption  • Establish priorities for recovery  • Establish recovery time objectives for resumption of critical products and services within their maximum tolerable period of disruption  • Estimate the resources required for resumption
0	The organization employs [Assignment: organization-defined security safeguards] to ensure that the interests of [Assignment: organization-defined external service providers] are consistent with and reflect organizational interests.	The organization employs [Assignment: organization-defined security safeguards] to ensure that the interests of [Assignment: organization-defined external service providers] are consistent with and reflect organizational interests.
0	Information involved in application service transactions shall be protected to prevent incomplete transmission, mis-routing, unauthorized message alteration, unauthorized disclosure, unauthorized message duplication or replay.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for defining allowances and conditions for permitting usage of organizationally-owned or managed user end-point devices (e.g., issued workstations, laptops, and mobile devices) and IT infrastructure network and systems components. Additionally, defining allowances and conditions to permit usage of personal mobile devices and associated applications with access to corporate resources (i.e., BYOD) shall be considered and incorporated as appropriate.
0	• Are there documented procedures and APIs for exporting data from the cloud?	Password policies, applicable to mobile devices, shall be documented and enforced through technical controls on all company devices or devices approved for BYOD usage, and shall prohibit the changing of password/PIN lengths and authentication requirements.
1	• Are any SLA provisions guaranteed by outsourcers lower than the SLAs you offer to your customers? If not, do you have supplier redundancy in place?	Business-critical or customer (tenant) impacting (physical and virtual) application and system-system interface (API) designs and configurations, and infrastructure network and systems components, shall be designed, developed, and deployed in accordance with mutually agreed-upon service and capacity-level expectations, as well as IT governance and service management policies and procedures.
0	The organization:  a. Develops, documents, and disseminates to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]:    1. An identification and authentication policy that addresses purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment, coordination among organizational entities, and compliance; and    2. Procedures to facilitate the implementation of the identification and authentication policy and associated identification and authentication controls; and  b. Reviews and updates the current:    1. Identification and authentication policy [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and    2. Identification and authentication procedures [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	Requirements for non-disclosure or confidentiality agreements reflecting the organization's needs for the protection of data and operational details shall be identified, documented, and reviewed at planned intervals.
0	Managers shall regularly review the compliance of information processing and procedures within their area of responsibility with the appropriate security policies, standards and any other security requirements.	Mechanisms shall be put in place to monitor and quantify the types, volumes, and costs of information security incidents.
1	Encrypt all non-console administrative access using strong cryptography.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for the use of encryption protocols for protection of sensitive data in storage (e.g., file servers, databases, and end-user workstations), data in use (memory), and data in transmission (e.g., system interfaces, over public networks, and electronic messaging) as per applicable legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations.
1	• How do you manage access to customer system images – and ensure that the authentication and cryptographic keys are not contained within in them?	Multi-tenant organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) applications, and infrastructure system and network components, shall be designed, developed, deployed, and configured such that provider and customer (tenant) user access is appropriately segmented from other tenant users, based on the following considerations:  • Established policies and procedures  • Isolation of business critical assets and/or sensitive user data, and sessions that mandate stronger internal controls and high levels of assurance  • Compliance with legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations
0	The organization employs the principle of least privilege, allowing only authorized accesses for users (or processes acting on behalf of users) which are necessary to accomplish assigned tasks in accordance with organizational missions and business functions.	BYOD and/or company-owned devices are configured to require an automatic lockout screen, and the requirement shall be enforced through technical controls.
0	To identify organizational assets and define appropriate protection responsibilities.	To identify organizational assets and define appropriate protection responsibilities.
1	Disable peer-to-peer (ad hoc) wireless network capabilities on wireless clients.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to protect wireless network environments, including the following:  • Perimeter firewalls implemented and configured to restrict unauthorized traffic  • Security settings enabled with strong encryption for authentication and transmission, replacing vendor default settings (e.g., encryption keys, passwords, and SNMP community strings)  • User access to wireless network devices restricted to authorized personnel  • The capability to detect the presence of unauthorized (rogue) wireless network devices for a timely disconnect from the network
1	When operating platforms are changed, business critical applications shall be reviewed and tested to ensure there is no adverse impact on organizational operations or security.	All structured and unstructured data shall be available to the customer and provided to them upon request in an industry-standard format (e.g., .doc, .xls, .pdf, logs, and flat files).
1	Media shall be disposed of securely and safely when no longer required, using formal procedures that are documented.	Policies and procedures shall be established with supporting business processes and technical measures implemented for the secure disposal and complete removal of data from all storage media, ensuring data is not recoverable by any computer forensic means.
0	Perform authenticated vulnerability scanning with agents running locally on each system or with remote scanners that are configured with elevated rights on the system being tested.	Ingress and egress to secure areas shall be constrained and monitored by physical access control mechanisms to ensure that only authorized personnel are allowed access.
0	Physically or logically segregated systems should be used to isolate and run software that is required for business operations but incur higher risk for the organization.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for the use of encryption protocols for protection of sensitive data in storage (e.g., file servers, databases, and end-user workstations), data in use (memory), and data in transmission (e.g., system interfaces, over public networks, and electronic messaging) as per applicable legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations.
0	All information and assets associated with information processing systems shall be owned by a designated part of the organization.	The mobile device policy shall require the use of encryption either for the entire device or for data identified as sensitive on all mobile devices, and shall be enforced through technology controls.
0	Policies and procedures shall be developed and implemented to protect information associated with the interconnection of business information systems.	Requirements for non-disclosure or confidentiality agreements reflecting the organization's needs for the protection of data and operational details shall be identified, documented, and reviewed at planned intervals.
1	Utilize centrally managed anti-malware software to continuously monitor and defend each of the organization’s workstations and servers.	The company shall have a documented policy prohibiting the installation of non-approved applications or approved applications not obtained through a pre-identified application store.
0	A formal policy shall be in place, and appropriate security measures shall be adopted to protect against the risks of using mobile computing and communication devices.	Independent reviews and assessments shall be performed at least annually to ensure that the organization addresses nonconformities of established policies, standards, procedures, and compliance obligations.
1	Limit access to system components and cardholder data to only those individuals whose job requires such access.	External business partners shall adhere to the same policies and procedures for change management, release, and testing as internal developers within the organization (e.g., ITIL service management processes).
1	The organization:  a. Employs malicious code protection mechanisms at information system entry and exit points to detect and eradicate malicious code;  b. Updates malicious code protection mechanisms whenever new releases are available in accordance with organizational configuration management policy and procedures;  c. Configures malicious code protection mechanisms to:    1. Perform periodic scans of the information system [Assignment: organization-defined frequency] and real-time scans of files from external sources at [Selection (one or more); endpoint; network entry/exit points] as the files are downloaded, opened, or executed in accordance with organizational security policy; and    2. [Selection (one or more): block malicious code; quarantine malicious code; send alert to administrator; [Assignment: organization-defined action]] in response to malicious code detection; and  d. Addresses the receipt of false positives during malicious code detection and eradication and the resulting potential impact on the availability of the information system.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to prevent the execution of malware on organizationally-owned or managed user end-point devices (i.e., issued workstations, laptops, and mobile devices) and IT infrastructure network and systems components.
0	• Do you monitor the temperature and humidity in the data centre? o Air-conditioning considerations or monitoring? 	Organizations shall create and maintain a control framework which captures standards, regulatory, legal, and statutory requirements relevant for their business needs. The control framework shall be reviewed at least annually to ensure changes that could affect the business processes are reflected.
1	Assets maintained in the inventory shall be owned.	Upon termination of workforce personnel and/or expiration of external business relationships, all organizationally-owned assets shall be returned within an established period.
0	All relevant legislative statutory, regulatory, contractual requirements and the organization's approach to meet these requirements shall be explicitly identified, documented and kept up to date for each information system and the organization.	User access shall be authorized and revalidated for entitlement appropriateness, at planned intervals, by the organization's business leadership or other accountable business role or function supported by evidence to demonstrate the organization is adhering to the rule of least privilege based on job function. For identified access violations, remediation must follow established user access policies and procedures.
1	A policy and supporting security measures shall be implemented to protect information accessed, processed or stored at teleworking sites.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to manage business risks associated with permitting mobile device access to corporate resources and may require the implementation of higher assurance compensating controls and acceptable-use policies and procedures (e.g., mandated security training, stronger identity, entitlement and access controls, and device monitoring).
0	• Are there any provisions for exporting user-created applications in a standard format?	Implementers shall ensure that the security vulnerability assessment tools or services accommodate the virtualization technologies used (e.g., virtualization aware).
0	Physical protection and guidelines for working in secure areas shall be designed and applied.	Physical protection and guidelines for working in secure areas shall be designed and applied.
1	Utilize a risk-rating process to prioritize the remediation of discovered vulnerabilities.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting processes and technical measures implemented, for timely detection of vulnerabilities within organizationally-owned or managed applications, infrastructure network and system components (e.g., network vulnerability assessment, penetration testing) to ensure the efficiency of implemented security controls. A risk-based model for prioritizing remediation of identified vulnerabilities shall be used. Changes shall be managed through a change management process for all vendor-supplied patches, configuration changes, or changes to the organization's internally developed software. Upon request, the provider informs customer (tenant) of policies and procedures and identified weaknesses especially if customer (tenant) data is used as part the service and/or customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of control.
0	Deploy network-based Intrusion Prevention Systems (IPS) to block malicious network traffic at each of the organization’s network boundaries.	Implementers shall ensure that the security vulnerability assessment tools or services accommodate the virtualization technologies used (e.g., virtualization aware).
0	Initialization, stopping, or pausing of the audit logs	Data input and output integrity routines (i.e., reconciliation and edit checks) shall be implemented for application interfaces and databases to prevent manual or systematic processing errors, corruption of data, or misuse.
0	Visitors are identified and given a badge or other identification that expires and that visibly distinguishes the visitors from onsite personnel.	Mobile devices connecting to corporate networks, or storing and accessing company information, shall allow for remote software version/patch validation. All mobile devices shall have the latest available security-related patches installed upon general release by the device manufacturer or carrier and authorized IT personnel shall be able to perform these updates remotely.
1	All employees of the organization and contractors and third-party users shall receive appropriate awareness training and regular updates in organizational policies and procedures, as relevant for their job function.	The BYOD policy and supporting awareness training clearly states the approved applications, application stores, and application extensions and plugins that may be used for BYOD usage.
1	Ensure that all of the organization’s key systems are backed up as a complete system, through processes such as imaging, to enable the quick recovery of an entire system.	The mobile device policy shall require the BYOD user to perform backups of data, prohibit the usage of unapproved application stores, and require the use of anti-malware software (where supported).
0	Ensure that local logging has been enabled on all systems and networking devices.	An inventory of all mobile devices used to store and access company data shall be kept and maintained. All changes to the status of these devices (i.e., operating system and patch levels, lost or decommissioned status, and to whom the device is assigned or approved for usage (BYOD)) will be included for each device in the inventory.
0	Ensure that the organization’s security awareness program is updated frequently (at least annually) to address new technologies, threats, standards and business requirements.	Authorization must be obtained prior to relocation or transfer of hardware, software, or data to an offsite premises.
1	Where other authentication mechanisms are used (for example, physical or logical security tokens, smart cards, certificates, etc.), use of these mechanisms must be assigned as follows:  Authentication mechanisms must be assigned to an individual account and not shared among multiple accounts.  Physical and/or logical controls must be in place to ensure only the intended account can use that mechanism to gain access.PCI DSS Requirements	Policies and procedures shall be established and maintained in support of data security to include (confidentiality, integrity, and availability) across multiple system interfaces, jurisdictions, and business functions to prevent improper disclosure, alteration, or destruction.
1	• Is a software release penetration tested to ensure it does not contain vulnerabilities? If vulnerabilities are discovered, what is the process for remedying these?	Organizations shall follow a defined quality change control and testing process (e.g., ITIL Service Management) with established baselines, testing, and release standards that focus on system availability, confidentiality, and integrity of systems and services.
0	The organization:  a. Assigns a risk designation to all organizational positions;  b. Establishes screening criteria for individuals filling those positions; and  c. Reviews and updates position risk designations [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to inventory, document, and maintain data flows for data that is resident (permanently or temporarily) within the service's geographically distributed (physical and virtual) applications and infrastructure network and systems components and/or shared with other third parties to ascertain any regulatory, statutory, or supply chain agreement (SLA) compliance impact, and to address any other business risks associated with the data. Upon request, provider shall inform customer (tenant) of compliance impact and risk, especially if customer data is used as part of the services.
1	Use appropriate facility entry controls to limit and monitor physical access to systems in the cardholder data environment.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes implemented, for maintaining a safe and secure working environment in offices, rooms, facilities, and secure areas storing sensitive information.
0	All relevant legislative statutory, regulatory, contractual requirements and the organization's approach to meet these requirements shall be explicitly identified, documented and kept up to date for each information system and the organization.	Risks shall be mitigated to an acceptable level. Acceptance levels based on risk criteria shall be established and documented in accordance with reasonable resolution time frames and stakeholder approval.
0	The organization employs assessors or assessment teams with [Assignment: organization-defined level of independence] to conduct security control assessments.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for equipment maintenance ensuring continuity and availability of operations and support personnel.
1	• Do you only allow authorised maintenance or repair staff onto the site? o How do you check their identity? 	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes implemented, for maintaining a safe and secure working environment in offices, rooms, facilities, and secure areas storing sensitive information.
1	o Is there a list of assets that the customer has used over a specific period of time?	Policies and procedures shall be established for the secure disposal of equipment (by asset type) used outside the organization's premises. This shall include a wiping solution or destruction process that renders recovery of information impossible. The erasure shall consist of a full overwrite of the drive to ensure that the erased drive is released to inventory for reuse and deployment, or securely stored until it can be destroyed.
1	Information systems shall be regularly reviewed for compliance with the organization's information security policies and standards.	Aligned with the enterprise-wide framework, formal risk assessments shall be performed at least annually or at planned intervals, (and in conjunction with any changes to information systems) to determine the likelihood and impact of all identified risks using qualitative and quantitative methods. The likelihood and impact associated with inherent and residual risk shall be determined independently, considering all risk categories (e.g., audit results, threat and vulnerability analysis, and regulatory compliance).
1	Deploy network-based Intrusion Prevention Systems (IPS) to block malicious network traffic at each of the organization’s network boundaries.	Secured and encrypted communication channels shall be used when migrating physical servers, applications, or data to virtualized servers and, where possible, shall use a network segregated from production-level networks for such migrations.
0	Implement physical and/or logical controls to restrict access to publicly accessible network jacks.	The mobile device policy shall require the BYOD user to perform backups of data, prohibit the usage of unapproved application stores, and require the use of anti-malware software (where supported).
0	Changes to systems within the development lifecycle shall be controlled by the use of formal change control procedures.	The identification, assessment, and prioritization of risks posed by business processes requiring third-party access to the organization's information systems and data shall be followed by coordinated application of resources to minimize, monitor, and measure likelihood and impact of unauthorized or inappropriate access. Compensating controls derived from the risk analysis shall be implemented prior to provisioning access.
1	• Can the provider confirm that the virtualised image does not contain the authentication credentials?	Provisioning user access (e.g., employees, contractors, customers (tenants), business partners, and/or supplier relationships) to data and organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) applications, infrastructure systems, and network components shall be authorized by the organization's management prior to access being granted and appropriately restricted as per established policies and procedures. Upon request, provider shall inform customer (tenant) of this user access, especially if customer (tenant) data is used as part the service and/or customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of control.
0	The organization requires the developer of the information system, system component, or information system service to:  a. Create and implement a security assessment plan;  b. Perform [Selection (one or more): unit; integration; system; regression] testing/evaluation at [Assignment: organization-defined depth and coverage];  c. Produce evidence of the execution of the security assessment plan and the results of the security testing/evaluation;  d. Implement a verifiable flaw remediation process; and  e. Correct flaws identified during security testing/evaluation.	The organization requires the developer of the information system, system component, or information system service to:  a. Create and implement a security assessment plan;  b. Perform [Selection (one or more): unit; integration; system; regression] testing/evaluation at [Assignment: organization-defined depth and coverage];  c. Produce evidence of the execution of the security assessment plan and the results of the security testing/evaluation;  d. Implement a verifiable flaw remediation process; and  e. Correct flaws identified during security testing/evaluation.
1	Ensure that only network ports, protocols, and services listening on a system with validated business needs are running on each system.	Each operating system shall be hardened to provide only necessary ports, protocols, and services to meet business needs and have in place supporting technical controls such as: antivirus, file integrity monitoring, and logging as part of their baseline operating build standard or template.
0	Install personal firewall software or equivalent functionality on any portable computing devices (including company and/or employee-owned) that connect to the Internet when outside the network (for example, laptops used by employees), and which are also used to access the CDE. Firewall (or equivalent) configurations include:  Specific configuration settings are defined.  Personal firewall (or equivalent functionality) is actively running.  Personal firewall (or equivalent functionality) is not alterable by users of the portable computing devices.	An Information Security Management Program (ISMP) shall be developed, documented, approved, and implemented that includes administrative, technical, and physical safeguards to protect assets and data from loss, misuse, unauthorized access, disclosure, alteration, and destruction. The security program shall include, but not be limited to, the following areas insofar as they relate to the characteristics of the business:  • Risk management  • Security policy  • Organization of information security  • Asset management  • Human resources security  • Physical and environmental security  • Communications and operations management  • Access control  • Information systems acquisition, development, and maintenance
1	The organization:  a. Conducts an assessment of risk, including the likelihood and magnitude of harm, from the unauthorized access, use, disclosure, disruption, modification, or destruction of the information system and the information it processes, stores, or transmits;  b. Documents risk assessment results in [Selection: security plan; risk assessment report; [Assignment: organization-defined document]];  c. Reviews risk assessment results [Assignment: organization-defined frequency];  d. Disseminates risk assessment results to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]; and  e. Updates the risk assessment [Assignment: organization-defined frequency] or whenever there are significant changes to the information system or environment of operation (including the identification of new threats and vulnerabilities), or other conditions that may impact the security state of the system.	Risk assessments associated with data governance requirements shall be conducted at planned intervals and shall consider the following:  • Awareness of where sensitive data is stored and transmitted across applications, databases, servers, and network infrastructure  • Compliance with defined retention periods and end-of-life disposal requirements  • Data classification and protection from unauthorized use, access, loss, destruction, and falsification
1	Maintain a written agreement that includes an acknowledgement that the service providers are responsible for the security of cardholder data the service providers possess or otherwise store, process or transmit on behalf of the customer, or to the extent that they could impact the security of the customer’s cardholder data environment.	Third-party service providers shall demonstrate compliance with information security and confidentiality, access control, service definitions, and delivery level agreements included in third-party contracts. Third-party reports, records, and services shall undergo audit and review at least annually to govern and maintain compliance with the service delivery agreements.
0	The organization:  a. Develops, documents, and disseminates to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]:    1. A security awareness and training policy that addresses purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment, coordination among organizational entities, and compliance; and    2.  Procedures to facilitate the implementation of the security awareness and training policy and associated security awareness and training controls; and  b. Reviews and updates the current:    1. Security awareness and training policy [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and    2.  Security awareness and training procedures [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	Executive and line management shall take formal action to support information security through clearly-documented direction and commitment, and shall ensure the action has been assigned.
0	Information systems shall be regularly reviewed for compliance with the organization's information security policies and standards.	Data center utilities services and environmental conditions (e.g., water, power, temperature and humidity controls, telecommunications, and internet connectivity) shall be secured, monitored, maintained, and tested for continual effectiveness at planned intervals to ensure protection from unauthorized interception or damage, and designed with automated fail-over or other redundancies in the event of planned or unplanned disruptions.
0	PCI DSS compliance roles and responsibilities must be specifically defined and formally assigned to one or more personnel, including at least the following:  Managing PCI DSS business-as-usual activities  Managing annual PCI DSS assessments  Managing continuous validation of PCI DSS requirements (for example: daily, weekly, quarterly, etc. as applicable per requirement)  Managing business-impact analysis to determine potential PCI DSS impacts for strategic business decisions	Authorization must be obtained prior to relocation or transfer of hardware, software, or data to an offsite premises.
1	Managers shall regularly review the compliance of information processing and procedures within their area of responsibility with the appropriate security policies, standards and any other security requirements.	The company shall have a documented policy prohibiting the installation of non-approved applications or approved applications not obtained through a pre-identified application store.
1	Information security events shall be reported through appropriate management channels as quickly as possible.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to triage security-related events and ensure timely and thorough incident management, as per established IT service management policies and procedures.
1	Ensure network engineers use a dedicated machine for all administrative tasks or tasks requiring elevated access. This machine shall be segmented from the organization’s primary network and not be allowed Internet access. This machine shall not be used for reading email, composing documents, or surfing the Internet.	Access to all hypervisor management functions or administrative consoles for systems hosting virtualized systems shall be restricted to personnel based upon the principle of least privilege and supported through technical controls (e.g., two-factor authentication, audit trails, IP address filtering, firewalls, and TLS encapsulated communications to the administrative consoles).
0	The organization provides information spillage response training [Assignment: organization- defined frequency]. 	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to prevent the execution of malware on organizationally-owned or managed user end-point devices (i.e., issued workstations, laptops, and mobile devices) and IT infrastructure network and systems components.
0	The organization centrally manages malicious code protection mechanisms.	The organization centrally manages malicious code protection mechanisms.
0	Ensure that each entity only runs processes that have access to that entity’s cardholder data environment.	Baseline security requirements shall be established for developed or acquired, organizationally-owned or managed, physical or virtual, applications and infrastructure system and network components that comply with applicable legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations. Deviations from standard baseline configurations must be authorized following change management policies and procedures prior to deployment, provisioning, or use. Compliance with security baseline requirements must be reassessed at least annually unless an alternate frequency has been established and authorized based on business needs.
0	Information systems shall be regularly reviewed for compliance with the organization's information security policies and standards.	The provider shall make security incident information available to all affected customers and providers periodically through electronic methods (e.g., portals).
1	Never send unprotected PANs by end- user messaging technologies (for example, e- mail, instant messaging, SMS, chat, etc.).	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for the use of encryption protocols for protection of sensitive data in storage (e.g., file servers, databases, and end-user workstations), data in use (memory), and data in transmission (e.g., system interfaces, over public networks, and electronic messaging) as per applicable legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations.
0	The organization:  (a)   Reviews the information system [Assignment: organization-defined frequency] to identify unnecessary and/or nonsecure functions, ports, protocols, and services; and  (b)   Disables [Assignment: organization-defined functions, ports, protocols, and services within the information system deemed to be unnecessary and/or nonsecure].	The provider shall have a documented mobile device policy that includes a documented definition for mobile devices and the acceptable usage and requirements for all mobile devices. The provider shall post and communicate the policy and requirements through the company's security awareness and training program.
0	• Is the hardened virtual image protected from unauthorized access?	Production data shall not be replicated or used in non-production environments. Any use of customer data in non-production environments requires explicit, documented approval from all customers whose data is affected, and must comply with all legal and regulatory requirements for scrubbing of sensitive data elements.
0	Managers shall regularly review the compliance of information processing and procedures within their area of responsibility with the appropriate security policies, standards and any other security requirements.	Policies and procedures shall be established and maintained in support of data security to include (confidentiality, integrity, and availability) across multiple system interfaces, jurisdictions, and business functions to prevent improper disclosure, alteration, or destruction.
0	The organization:  a. Establishes usage restrictions and implementation guidance for Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) technologies based on the potential to cause damage to the information system if used maliciously; and  b. Authorizes, monitors, and controls the use of VoIP within the information system.	Data center utilities services and environmental conditions (e.g., water, power, temperature and humidity controls, telecommunications, and internet connectivity) shall be secured, monitored, maintained, and tested for continual effectiveness at planned intervals to ensure protection from unauthorized interception or damage, and designed with automated fail-over or other redundancies in the event of planned or unplanned disruptions.
0	Information security events shall be reported through appropriate communications channels as quickly as possible. All employees, contractors and third-party users shall be made aware of their responsibility to report any information security events as quickly as possible.	Third-party service providers shall demonstrate compliance with information security and confidentiality, access control, service definitions, and delivery level agreements included in third-party contracts. Third-party reports, records, and services shall undergo audit and review at least annually to govern and maintain compliance with the service delivery agreements.
0	Information security shall be addressed in project management, regardless of the type of the project.	All cloud-based services used by the company's mobile devices or BYOD shall be pre-approved for usage and the storage of company business data.
0	o In the event of the primary site being made unavailable, what is the minimum separation for the location of the secondary site?	Each operating system shall be hardened to provide only necessary ports, protocols, and services to meet business needs and have in place supporting technical controls such as: antivirus, file integrity monitoring, and logging as part of their baseline operating build standard or template.
0	Validation checks shall be incorporated into applications to detect any corruption of information through processing errors or deliberate acts.	Physical access to information assets and functions by users and support personnel shall be restricted.
0	Managers shall regularly review the compliance of information processing and procedures within their area of responsibility with the appropriate security policies, standards and any other security requirements.	Platform and data-appropriate encryption (e.g., AES-256) in open/validated formats and standard algorithms shall be required. Keys shall not be stored in the cloud (i.e., at the cloud provider in question), but maintained by the cloud consumer or trusted key management provider. Key management and key usage shall be separated duties.
0	The organization:  a. Develops, documents, and disseminates to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]:    1. An identification and authentication policy that addresses purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment, coordination among organizational entities, and compliance; and    2. Procedures to facilitate the implementation of the identification and authentication policy and associated identification and authentication controls; and  b. Reviews and updates the current:    1. Identification and authentication policy [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and    2. Identification and authentication procedures [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	Business-critical or customer (tenant) impacting (physical and virtual) application and system-system interface (API) designs and configurations, and infrastructure network and systems components, shall be designed, developed, and deployed in accordance with mutually agreed-upon service and capacity-level expectations, as well as IT governance and service management policies and procedures.
0	Maintain an up-to-date inventory of all of the organization’s network boundaries.	Policies, procedures, and mutually-agreed upon provisions and/or terms shall be established to satisfy customer (tenant) requirements for service-to-service application (API) and information processing interoperability, and portability for application development and information exchange, usage, and integrity persistence.
1	The organization manages information system identifiers by:  a. Receiving authorization from [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles] to assign an individual, group, role, or device identifier;  b. Selecting an identifier that identifies an individual, group, role, or device;  c. Assigning the identifier to the intended individual, group, role, or device;  d. Preventing reuse of identifiers for [Assignment: organization-defined time period]; and  e. Disabling the identifier after [Assignment: organization-defined time period of inactivity].	Provisioning user access (e.g., employees, contractors, customers (tenants), business partners, and/or supplier relationships) to data and organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) applications, infrastructure systems, and network components shall be authorized by the organization's management prior to access being granted and appropriately restricted as per established policies and procedures. Upon request, provider shall inform customer (tenant) of this user access, especially if customer (tenant) data is used as part the service and/or customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of control.
0	Use DNS filtering services to help block access to known malicious domains.	Secured and encrypted communication channels shall be used when migrating physical servers, applications, or data to virtualized servers and, where possible, shall use a network segregated from production-level networks for such migrations.
0	When operating platforms are changed, business critical applications shall be reviewed and tested to ensure there is no adverse impact on organizational operations or security.	Audit plans shall be developed and maintained to address business process disruptions. Auditing plans shall focus on reviewing the effectiveness of the implementation of security operations. All audit activities must be agreed upon prior to executing any audits.
0	• Is the virtual network infrastructure used by cloud providers (in PVLANs and VLAN tagging 802.1q architecture) secured to vendor and/or best practice specific standards (e.g., are MAC spoofing, ARP poisoning attacks, etc, prevented via a specific security configuration)?	Requirements for non-disclosure or confidentiality agreements reflecting the organization's needs for the protection of data and operational details shall be identified, documented, and reviewed at planned intervals.
0	Executive management shall establish responsibility for the protection of cardholder data and a PCI DSS compliance program to include:  Overall accountability for maintaining PCI DSS compliance  Defining a charter for a PCI DSS compliance program  Providing updates to executive management and board of directors on PCI DSS compliance initiatives and issues, including remediation activities, at least annually	Executive management shall establish responsibility for the protection of cardholder data and a PCI DSS compliance program to include:  Overall accountability for maintaining PCI DSS compliance  Defining a charter for a PCI DSS compliance program  Providing updates to executive management and board of directors on PCI DSS compliance initiatives and issues, including remediation activities, at least annually
1	Coverage of all system components	Access to the organization's own developed applications, program, or object source code, or any other form of intellectual property (IP), and use of proprietary software shall be appropriately restricted following the rule of least privilege based on job function as per established user access policies and procedures.
0	The information system uniquely identifies and authenticates organizational users (or processes acting on behalf of organizational users).	The BYOD policy shall define the device and eligibility requirements to allow for BYOD usage.
0	Changes to information assets and systems shall be controlled and archived.	Physical access to information assets and functions by users and support personnel shall be restricted.
1	The organization:  a. Develops, documents, and disseminates to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]:    1. An identification and authentication policy that addresses purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment, coordination among organizational entities, and compliance; and    2. Procedures to facilitate the implementation of the identification and authentication policy and associated identification and authentication controls; and  b. Reviews and updates the current:    1. Identification and authentication policy [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and    2. Identification and authentication procedures [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	Policies and procedures shall be established to store and manage identity information about every person who accesses IT infrastructure and to determine their level of access. Policies shall also be developed to control access to network resources based on user identity.
0	When operating platforms are changed, business critical applications shall be reviewed and tested to ensure there is no adverse impact on organizational operations or security.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes implemented, for maintaining a safe and secure working environment in offices, rooms, facilities, and secure areas storing sensitive information.
1	Additional requirement for service providers only: Service providers with remote access to customer premises (for example, for support of POS systems or servers) must use a unique authentication credential (such as a password/phrase) for each customer.	External business partners shall adhere to the same policies and procedures for change management, release, and testing as internal developers within the organization (e.g., ITIL service management processes).
1	All information and assets associated with information processing systems shall be owned by a designated part of the organization.	Assets must be classified in terms of business criticality, service-level expectations, and operational continuity requirements. A complete inventory of business-critical assets located at all sites and/or geographical locations and their usage over time shall be maintained and updated regularly, and assigned ownership by defined roles and responsibilities.
0	To ensure that employees and contractors understand  their  responsibilities  and  are  suitable for the roles for which they are considered.	To ensure that employees and contractors understand  their  responsibilities  and  are  suitable for the roles for which they are considered.
0	If disk encryption is used (rather than file- or column-level database encryption), logical access must be managed separately and independently of native operating system authentication and access control mechanisms (for example, by not using local user account databases or general network login credentials). Decryption keys must not be associated with user accounts.	Ingress and egress to secure areas shall be constrained and monitored by physical access control mechanisms to ensure that only authorized personnel are allowed access.
1	o In the event of the primary site being made unavailable, what is the minimum separation for the location of the secondary site?	To reduce the risks from environmental threats, hazards, and opportunities for unauthorized access, equipment shall be kept away from locations subject to high probability environmental risks and supplemented by redundant equipment located at a reasonable distance.
1	Perform external penetration testing at least annually and after any significant infrastructure or application upgrade or modification (such as an operating system upgrade, a sub-network added to the environment, or a web server added to the environment).	Independent reviews and assessments shall be performed at least annually to ensure that the organization addresses nonconformities of established policies, standards, procedures, and compliance obligations.
1	When operating platforms are changed, business critical applications shall be reviewed and tested to ensure there is no adverse impact on organizational operations or security.	Policies and procedures shall be established for managing the risks associated with applying changes to:  • Business-critical or customer (tenant)-impacting (physical and virtual) applications and system-system interface (API) designs and configurations.  • Infrastructure network and systems components. Technical measures shall be implemented to provide assurance that all changes directly correspond to a registered change request, business-critical or customer (tenant), and/or authorization by, the customer (tenant) as per agreement (SLA) prior to deployment.
0	Assign access based on individual personnel’s job classification and function.	The provider shall perform annual internal assessments of conformance to, and effectiveness of, its policies, procedures, and supporting measures and metrics.
1	The organization employs the principle of least privilege, allowing only authorized accesses for users (or processes acting on behalf of users) which are necessary to accomplish assigned tasks in accordance with organizational missions and business functions.	Providers shall inspect, account for, and work with their cloud supply-chain partners to correct data quality errors and associated risks. Providers shall design and implement controls to mitigate and contain data security risks through proper separation of duties, role-based access, and least-privilege access for all personnel within their supply chain.
1	The organization:  a. Establishes and makes readily available to individuals requiring access to the information system, the rules that describe their responsibilities and expected behavior with regard to information and information system usage;  b. Receives a signed acknowledgment from such individuals, indicating that they have read, understand, and agree to abide by the rules of behavior, before authorizing access to information and the information system;  c. Reviews and updates the rules of behavior [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and d. Requires individuals who have signed a previous version of the rules of behavior to read and resign when the rules of behavior are revised/updated.	The BYOD policy shall define the device and eligibility requirements to allow for BYOD usage.
1	The organization:  a. Develops, documents, and disseminates to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]:    1. A security awareness and training policy that addresses purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment, coordination among organizational entities, and compliance; and    2.  Procedures to facilitate the implementation of the security awareness and training policy and associated security awareness and training controls; and  b. Reviews and updates the current:    1. Security awareness and training policy [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and    2.  Security awareness and training procedures [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	The organization's business leadership (or other accountable business role or function) shall review the information security policy at planned intervals or as a result of changes to the organization to ensure its continuing alignment with the security strategy, effectiveness, accuracy, relevance, and applicability to legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance obligations.
0	Access to information systems audit tools shall be protected to prevent any possible misuse or compromise.	A reliable and mutually agreed upon external time source shall be used to synchronize the system clocks of all relevant information processing systems to facilitate tracing and reconstitution of activity timelines.
0	Background verification checks on all candidates for employment shall be carried out in accordance with relevant laws, regulations and ethics and shall be proportional to the business requirements, the classification of the information to be accessed and the perceived risks.	Network architecture diagrams shall clearly identify high-risk environments and data flows that may have legal compliance impacts. Technical measures shall be implemented and shall apply defense-in-depth techniques (e.g., deep packet analysis, traffic throttling, and black-holing) for detection and timely response to network-based attacks associated with anomalous ingress or egress traffic patterns (e.g., MAC spoofing and ARP poisoning attacks) and/or distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) attacks.
0	Ensure that only authorized scripting languages are able to run in all web browsers and email clients.	The BYOD policy includes clarifying language for the expectation of privacy, requirements for litigation, e-discovery, and legal holds. The BYOD policy shall clearly state the expectations regarding the loss of non-company data in the case that a wipe of the device is required.
1	Before deploying any new asset, change all default passwords to have values consistent with administrative level accounts.	Internal corporate or customer (tenant) user account credentials shall be restricted as per the following, ensuring appropriate identity, entitlement, and access management and in accordance with established policies and procedures:  • Identity trust verification and service-to-service application (API) and information processing interoperability (e.g., SSO and Federation)  • Account credential lifecycle management from instantiation through revocation  • Account credential and/or identity store minimization or re-use when feasible  • Adherence to industry acceptable and/or regulatory compliant authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules (e.g., strong/multi-factor, expireable, non-shared authentication secrets)
0	Develop configuration standards for all system components. Assure that these standards address all known security vulnerabilities and are consistent with industry-accepted system hardening standards.	Multi-tenant organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) applications, and infrastructure system and network components, shall be designed, developed, deployed, and configured such that provider and customer (tenant) user access is appropriately segmented from other tenant users, based on the following considerations:  • Established policies and procedures  • Isolation of business critical assets and/or sensitive user data, and sessions that mandate stronger internal controls and high levels of assurance  • Compliance with legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations
1	• Can the provider confirm that the virtualised image does not contain the authentication credentials?	Timely de-provisioning (revocation or modification) of user access to data and organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) applications, infrastructure systems, and network components, shall be implemented as per established policies and procedures and based on user's change in status (e.g., termination of employment or other business relationship, job change, or transfer). Upon request, provider shall inform customer (tenant) of these changes, especially if customer (tenant) data is used as part the service and/or customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of control.
0	Information systems shall be regularly reviewed for compliance with the organization's information security policies and standards.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to prevent the execution of unauthorized mobile code, defined as software transferred between systems over a trusted or untrusted network and executed on a local system without explicit installation or execution by the recipient, on organizationally-owned or managed user end-point devices (e.g., issued workstations, laptops, and mobile devices) and IT infrastructure network and systems components.
1	All relevant legislative statutory, regulatory, contractual requirements and the organization's approach to meet these requirements shall be explicitly identified, documented and kept up to date for each information system and the organization.	The BYOD policy shall clarify the systems and servers allowed for use or access on a BYOD-enabled device.
1	Maintain standard, documented security configuration standards for all authorized network devices.	Secured and encrypted communication channels shall be used when migrating physical servers, applications, or data to virtualized servers and, where possible, shall use a network segregated from production-level networks for such migrations.
0	The clocks of all relevant information processing systems within the organization or security domain shall be synchronized with an agreed accurate time source to support tracing and reconstitution of activity timelines.	Roles and responsibilities of contractors, employees, and third-party users shall be documented as they relate to information assets and security.
1	Information involved in application services passing over public networks shall be protected from fraudulent activity, contract dispute and unauthorized disclosure and modification.	Data related to electronic commerce (ecommerce) that traverses public networks shall be appropriately classified and protected from fraudulent activity, unauthorized disclosure, or modification in such a manner to prevent contract dispute and compromise of data.
1	Use either video cameras or access control mechanisms (or both) to monitor individual physical access to sensitive areas. Review collected data and correlate with other entries. Store for at least three months, unless otherwise restricted by law.	Physical access to information assets and functions by users and support personnel shall be restricted.
0	Assign access based on individual personnel’s job classification and function.	Applications and programming interfaces (APIs) shall be designed, developed, deployed, and tested in accordance with leading industry standards (e.g., OWASP for web applications) and adhere to applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance obligations.
0	All information security responsibilities shall be defined and allocated.	The organization's business leadership (or other accountable business role or function) shall review the information security policy at planned intervals or as a result of changes to the organization to ensure its continuing alignment with the security strategy, effectiveness, accuracy, relevance, and applicability to legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance obligations.
0	Events that can cause interruptions to business processes shall be identified, along with the probability and impact of such interruptions and their consequences for information security.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting processes and technical measures implemented, for timely detection of vulnerabilities within organizationally-owned or managed applications, infrastructure network and system components (e.g., network vulnerability assessment, penetration testing) to ensure the efficiency of implemented security controls. A risk-based model for prioritizing remediation of identified vulnerabilities shall be used. Changes shall be managed through a change management process for all vendor-supplied patches, configuration changes, or changes to the organization's internally developed software. Upon request, the provider informs customer (tenant) of policies and procedures and identified weaknesses especially if customer (tenant) data is used as part the service and/or customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of control.
1	Do not store the full contents of any track (from the magnetic stripe located on the back of a card, equivalent data contained on a chip, or elsewhere) after authorization. This data is alternatively called full track, track, track 1, track 2, and magnetic-stripe data.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for defining and adhering to the retention period of any critical asset as per established policies and procedures, as well as applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance obligations. Backup and recovery measures shall be incorporated as part of business continuity planning and tested accordingly for effectiveness.
0	Automatically lock workstation sessions after a standard period of inactivity.	There shall be a defined and documented method for determining the impact of any disruption to the organization (cloud provider, cloud consumer) that must incorporate the following:  • Identify critical products and services  • Identify all dependencies, including processes, applications, business partners, and third party service providers  • Understand threats to critical products and services  • Determine impacts resulting from planned or unplanned disruptions and how these vary over time  • Establish the maximum tolerable period for disruption  • Establish priorities for recovery  • Establish recovery time objectives for resumption of critical products and services within their maximum tolerable period of disruption  • Estimate the resources required for resumption
0	• How do you manage access to customer system images – and ensure that the authentication and cryptographic keys are not contained within in them?	Independent reviews and assessments shall be performed at least annually to ensure that the organization addresses nonconformities of established policies, standards, procedures, and compliance obligations.
0	The organization:  a. Develops, documents, and disseminates to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]:    1. A security awareness and training policy that addresses purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment, coordination among organizational entities, and compliance; and    2.  Procedures to facilitate the implementation of the security awareness and training policy and associated security awareness and training controls; and  b. Reviews and updates the current:    1. Security awareness and training policy [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and    2.  Security awareness and training procedures [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	Workforce personnel and external business relationships shall be informed of their responsibilities and, if required, shall consent and/or contractually agree to report all information security events in a timely manner. Information security events shall be reported through predefined communications channels in a timely manner adhering to applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance obligations.
1	Maintain standard, documented security configuration standards for all authorized network devices.	Network architecture diagrams shall clearly identify high-risk environments and data flows that may have legal compliance impacts. Technical measures shall be implemented and shall apply defense-in-depth techniques (e.g., deep packet analysis, traffic throttling, and black-holing) for detection and timely response to network-based attacks associated with anomalous ingress or egress traffic patterns (e.g., MAC spoofing and ARP poisoning attacks) and/or distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) attacks.
0	Create the incident response plan to be implemented in the event of system breach. Ensure the plan addresses the following, at a minimum:  Roles, responsibilities, and communication and contact strategies in the event of a compromise including notification of the payment brands, at a minimum  Specific incident response procedures  Business recovery and continuity procedures  Data backup processes  Analysis of legal requirements for reporting compromises  Coverage and responses of all critical system components  Reference or inclusion of incident response procedures from the payment brands.	Production and non-production environments shall be separated to prevent unauthorized access or changes to information assets. Separation of the environments may include: stateful inspection firewalls, domain/realm authentication sources, and clear segregation of duties for personnel accessing these environments as part of their job duties.
1	All configuration rules that allow traffic to flow through network devices should be documented in a configuration management system with a specific business reason for each rule, a specific individual’s name responsible for that business need, and an expected duration of the need.	Secured and encrypted communication channels shall be used when migrating physical servers, applications, or data to virtualized servers and, where possible, shall use a network segregated from production-level networks for such migrations.
0	Formal exchange policies, procedures, and controls shall be in place to protect the exchange of information through the use of all types of communication mediums.	Protection measures shall be put into place to react to natural and man-made threats based upon a geographically-specific business impact assessment.
0	The organization:  a. Establishes a process for maintenance personnel authorization and maintains a list of authorized maintenance organizations or personnel;  b. Ensures that non-escorted personnel performing maintenance on the information system have required access authorizations; and  c. Designates organizational personnel with required access authorizations and technical competence to supervise the maintenance activities of personnel who do not possess the required access authorizations.	Applications and programming interfaces (APIs) shall be designed, developed, deployed, and tested in accordance with leading industry standards (e.g., OWASP for web applications) and adhere to applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance obligations.
0	Management shall require employees, and where applicable, contractors and third-party users, to apply security in accordance with established policies and procedures of the organization.	Automated equipment identification shall be used as a method of connection authentication. Location-aware technologies may be used to validate connection authentication integrity based on known equipment location.
1	Appropriate contacts with relevant authorities shall be maintained.	An Information Security Management Program (ISMP) shall be developed, documented, approved, and implemented that includes administrative, technical, and physical safeguards to protect assets and data from loss, misuse, unauthorized access, disclosure, alteration, and destruction. The security program shall include, but not be limited to, the following areas insofar as they relate to the characteristics of the business:  • Risk management  • Security policy  • Organization of information security  • Asset management  • Human resources security  • Physical and environmental security  • Communications and operations management  • Access control  • Information systems acquisition, development, and maintenance
0	A policy on the use of cryptographic controls for protection of information shall be developed and implemented.	Assets must be classified in terms of business criticality, service-level expectations, and operational continuity requirements. A complete inventory of business-critical assets located at all sites and/or geographical locations and their usage over time shall be maintained and updated regularly, and assigned ownership by defined roles and responsibilities.
0	Manage the network infrastructure across network connections that are separated from the business use of that network, relying on separate VLANs or, preferably, on entirely different physical connectivity for management sessions for network devices.	Organizations shall create and maintain a control framework which captures standards, regulatory, legal, and statutory requirements relevant for their business needs. The control framework shall be reviewed at least annually to ensure changes that could affect the business processes are reflected.
0	The information system protects the [Selection (one or more): confidentiality; integrity] of transmitted information.	Each operating system shall be hardened to provide only necessary ports, protocols, and services to meet business needs and have in place supporting technical controls such as: antivirus, file integrity monitoring, and logging as part of their baseline operating build standard or template.
1	Mask PAN when displayed (the first six and last four digits are the maximum number of digits to be displayed), such that only personnel with a legitimate business need can see more than the first six/last four digits of the PAN.	External business partners shall adhere to the same policies and procedures for change management, release, and testing as internal developers within the organization (e.g., ITIL service management processes).
0	The information system protects the availability of resources by allocating [Assignment: organization-defined resources] by [Selection (one or more); priority; quota; [Assignment: organization-defined security safeguards]].	Each operating system shall be hardened to provide only necessary ports, protocols, and services to meet business needs and have in place supporting technical controls such as: antivirus, file integrity monitoring, and logging as part of their baseline operating build standard or template.
0	Acceptance criteria for new information systems, upgrades, and new versions shall be established and suitable tests of the system(s) carried out during development and prior to acceptance to maintain security.	Internal corporate or customer (tenant) user account credentials shall be restricted as per the following, ensuring appropriate identity, entitlement, and access management and in accordance with established policies and procedures:  • Identity trust verification and service-to-service application (API) and information processing interoperability (e.g., SSO and Federation)  • Account credential lifecycle management from instantiation through revocation  • Account credential and/or identity store minimization or re-use when feasible  • Adherence to industry acceptable and/or regulatory compliant authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules (e.g., strong/multi-factor, expireable, non-shared authentication secrets)
1	An access control policy shall be established, documented and reviewed based on business and information security requirements.	User access policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for ensuring appropriate identity, entitlement, and access management for all internal corporate and customer (tenant) users with access to data and organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) application interfaces and infrastructure network and systems components. These policies, procedures, processes, and measures must incorporate the following:  • Procedures, supporting roles, and responsibilities for provisioning and de-provisioning user account entitlements following the rule of least privilege based on job function (e.g., internal employee and contingent staff personnel changes, customer-controlled access, suppliers' business relationships, or other third-party business relationships)  • Business case considerations for higher levels of assurance and multi-factor authentication secrets (e.g., management interfaces, key generation, remote access, segregation of duties, emergency access, large-scale provisioning or geographically-distributed deployments, and personnel redundancy for critical systems)  • Access segmentation to sessions and data in multi-tenant architectures by any third party (e.g., provider and/or other customer (tenant))  • Identity trust verification and service-to-service application (API) and information processing interoperability (e.g., SSO and federation)  • Account credential lifecycle management from instantiation through revocation  • Account credential and/or identity store minimization or re-use when feasible  • Authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules for access to data and sessions (e.g., encryption and strong/multi-factor, expireable, non-shared authentication secrets)  • Permissions and supporting capabilities for customer (tenant) controls over authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules for access to data and sessions  • Adherence to applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance requirements
1	Risk Assessments shall be performed to identify and quantify risks.	Aligned with the enterprise-wide framework, formal risk assessments shall be performed at least annually or at planned intervals, (and in conjunction with any changes to information systems) to determine the likelihood and impact of all identified risks using qualitative and quantitative methods. The likelihood and impact associated with inherent and residual risk shall be determined independently, considering all risk categories (e.g., audit results, threat and vulnerability analysis, and regulatory compliance).
1	The organization establishes terms and conditions, consistent with any trust relationships established with other organizations owning, operating, and/or maintaining external information systems, allowing authorized individuals to:  a. Access the information system from external information systems; and  b. Process, store, or transmit organization-controlled information using external information systems.	The mobile device policy shall require the use of encryption either for the entire device or for data identified as sensitive on all mobile devices, and shall be enforced through technology controls.
0	Secure audit trails so they cannot be altered.	Network environments and virtual instances shall be designed and configured to restrict and monitor traffic between trusted and untrusted connections. These configurations shall be reviewed at least annually, and supported by a documented justification for use for all allowed services, protocols, ports, and by compensating controls.
0	Asset owners shall review users' access rights at regular intervals.	Physical security perimeters (e.g., fences, walls, barriers, guards, gates, electronic surveillance, physical authentication mechanisms, reception desks, and security patrols) shall be implemented to safeguard sensitive data and information systems.
0	Changes to systems within the development lifecycle shall be controlled by the use of formal change control procedures.	Third-party service providers shall demonstrate compliance with information security and confidentiality, access control, service definitions, and delivery level agreements included in third-party contracts. Third-party reports, records, and services shall undergo audit and review at least annually to govern and maintain compliance with the service delivery agreements.
0	Additional requirement for service providers only: Perform reviews at least quarterly to confirm personnel are following security policies and operational procedures. Reviews must cover the following processes:  Daily log reviews  Firewall rule-set reviews  Applying configuration standards to new systems  Responding to security alerts  Change management processes	External business partners shall adhere to the same policies and procedures for change management, release, and testing as internal developers within the organization (e.g., ITIL service management processes).
0	Segment the network based on the label or classification level of the information stored on the servers, locate all sensitive information on separated Virtual Local Area Networks (VLANs).	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to triage security-related events and ensure timely and thorough incident management, as per established IT service management policies and procedures.
0	Operating procedures shall be documented and made available to all users who need them.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to inventory, document, and maintain data flows for data that is resident (permanently or temporarily) within the service's geographically distributed (physical and virtual) applications and infrastructure network and systems components and/or shared with other third parties to ascertain any regulatory, statutory, or supply chain agreement (SLA) compliance impact, and to address any other business risks associated with the data. Upon request, provider shall inform customer (tenant) of compliance impact and risk, especially if customer data is used as part of the services.
1	Managers shall regularly review the compliance of information processing and procedures within their area of responsibility with the appropriate security policies, standards and any other security requirements.	The BYOD policy includes clarifying language for the expectation of privacy, requirements for litigation, e-discovery, and legal holds. The BYOD policy shall clearly state the expectations regarding the loss of non-company data in the case that a wipe of the device is required.
0	Managers shall regularly review the compliance of information processing and procedures within their area of responsibility with the appropriate security policies, standards and any other security requirements.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to ensure the development and/or acquisition of new data, physical or virtual applications, infrastructure network, and systems components, or any corporate, operations and/or data center facilities have been pre-authorized by the organization's business leadership or other accountable business role or function.
0	• What provisions exist in the event of the theft of a customer’s credentials (detection, revocation, evidence for actions)?	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to prevent the execution of unauthorized mobile code, defined as software transferred between systems over a trusted or untrusted network and executed on a local system without explicit installation or execution by the recipient, on organizationally-owned or managed user end-point devices (e.g., issued workstations, laptops, and mobile devices) and IT infrastructure network and systems components.
0	• What data storage and protection controls apply to the user directory (eg, AD, LDAP) and access to it?	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to prevent the execution of unauthorized mobile code, defined as software transferred between systems over a trusted or untrusted network and executed on a local system without explicit installation or execution by the recipient, on organizationally-owned or managed user end-point devices (e.g., issued workstations, laptops, and mobile devices) and IT infrastructure network and systems components.
0	Information systems shall be regularly reviewed for compliance with the organization's information security policies and standards.	Requirements for non-disclosure or confidentiality agreements reflecting the organization's needs for the protection of data and operational details shall be identified, documented, and reviewed at planned intervals.
0	The organization:  a. Develops, documents, and disseminates to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]:    1. A security planning policy that addresses purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment, coordination among organizational entities, and compliance; and    2. Procedures to facilitate the implementation of the security planning policy and associated security planning controls; and  b. Reviews and updates the current:    1. Security planning policy [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and    2. Security planning procedures [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	There shall be a defined and documented method for determining the impact of any disruption to the organization (cloud provider, cloud consumer) that must incorporate the following:  • Identify critical products and services  • Identify all dependencies, including processes, applications, business partners, and third party service providers  • Understand threats to critical products and services  • Determine impacts resulting from planned or unplanned disruptions and how these vary over time  • Establish the maximum tolerable period for disruption  • Establish priorities for recovery  • Establish recovery time objectives for resumption of critical products and services within their maximum tolerable period of disruption  • Estimate the resources required for resumption
1	Use appropriate facility entry controls to limit and monitor physical access to systems in the cardholder data environment.	Physical security perimeters (e.g., fences, walls, barriers, guards, gates, electronic surveillance, physical authentication mechanisms, reception desks, and security patrols) shall be implemented to safeguard sensitive data and information systems.
0	The organization:  a. Develops, documents, and disseminates to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]:    1. A system maintenance policy that addresses purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment, coordination among organizational entities, and compliance; and    2. Procedures to facilitate the implementation of the system maintenance policy and associated system maintenance controls; and  b. Reviews and updates the current:    1. System maintenance policy [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and    2. System maintenance procedures [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	Physical protection against damage from natural causes and disasters, as well as deliberate attacks, including fire, flood, atmospheric electrical discharge, solar induced geomagnetic storm, wind, earthquake, tsunami, explosion, nuclear accident, volcanic activity, biological hazard, civil unrest, mudslide, tectonic activity, and other forms of natural or man-made disaster shall be anticipated, designed, and have countermeasures applied.
1	Asset owners shall review users' access rights at regular intervals.	User access policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for ensuring appropriate identity, entitlement, and access management for all internal corporate and customer (tenant) users with access to data and organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) application interfaces and infrastructure network and systems components. These policies, procedures, processes, and measures must incorporate the following:  • Procedures, supporting roles, and responsibilities for provisioning and de-provisioning user account entitlements following the rule of least privilege based on job function (e.g., internal employee and contingent staff personnel changes, customer-controlled access, suppliers' business relationships, or other third-party business relationships)  • Business case considerations for higher levels of assurance and multi-factor authentication secrets (e.g., management interfaces, key generation, remote access, segregation of duties, emergency access, large-scale provisioning or geographically-distributed deployments, and personnel redundancy for critical systems)  • Access segmentation to sessions and data in multi-tenant architectures by any third party (e.g., provider and/or other customer (tenant))  • Identity trust verification and service-to-service application (API) and information processing interoperability (e.g., SSO and federation)  • Account credential lifecycle management from instantiation through revocation  • Account credential and/or identity store minimization or re-use when feasible  • Authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules for access to data and sessions (e.g., encryption and strong/multi-factor, expireable, non-shared authentication secrets)  • Permissions and supporting capabilities for customer (tenant) controls over authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules for access to data and sessions  • Adherence to applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance requirements
1	Information security incidents shall be responded to in accordance with the documented procedures.	The provider shall ensure the integrity of all virtual machine images at all times. Any changes made to virtual machine images must be logged and an alert raised regardless of their running state (e.g., dormant, off, or running). The results of a change or move of an image and the subsequent validation of the image's integrity must be immediately available to customers through electronic methods (e.g., portals or alerts).
0	The information system implements [Assignment: organization-defined security safeguards] to protect its memory from unauthorized code execution.	Third-party service providers shall demonstrate compliance with information security and confidentiality, access control, service definitions, and delivery level agreements included in third-party contracts. Third-party reports, records, and services shall undergo audit and review at least annually to govern and maintain compliance with the service delivery agreements.
1	Privacy and protection of personally identifiable information shall be ensured as required in relevant legislation and regulation where applicable.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to manage business risks associated with permitting mobile device access to corporate resources and may require the implementation of higher assurance compensating controls and acceptable-use policies and procedures (e.g., mandated security training, stronger identity, entitlement and access controls, and device monitoring).
0	• Will the cloud provider use other companies whose infrastructure is located outside that of the cloud provider?	The provider shall ensure the integrity of all virtual machine images at all times. Any changes made to virtual machine images must be logged and an alert raised regardless of their running state (e.g., dormant, off, or running). The results of a change or move of an image and the subsequent validation of the image's integrity must be immediately available to customers through electronic methods (e.g., portals or alerts).
0	Privacy and protection of personally identifiable information shall be ensured as required in relevant legislation and regulation where applicable.	Mobile devices connecting to corporate networks, or storing and accessing company information, shall allow for remote software version/patch validation. All mobile devices shall have the latest available security-related patches installed upon general release by the device manufacturer or carrier and authorized IT personnel shall be able to perform these updates remotely.
1	Conduct regular external and internal penetration tests to identify vulnerabilities and attack vectors that can be used to exploit enterprise systems successfully.	Higher levels of assurance are required for protection, retention, and lifecycle management of audit logs, adhering to applicable legal, statutory or regulatory compliance obligations and providing unique user access accountability to detect potentially suspicious network behaviors and/or file integrity anomalies, and to support forensic investigative capabilities in the event of a security breach.
0	To avoid breaches of legal, statutory, regulatory or contractual obligations related to information security and of any security requirements.	Password policies, applicable to mobile devices, shall be documented and enforced through technical controls on all company devices or devices approved for BYOD usage, and shall prohibit the changing of password/PIN lengths and authentication requirements.
0	• How do you validate that new releases are fit-for-purpose or do not have risks (backdoors, Trojans, etc)? Are these reviewed before use?	Data input and output integrity routines (i.e., reconciliation and edit checks) shall be implemented for application interfaces and databases to prevent manual or systematic processing errors, corruption of data, or misuse.
0	Records shall be protected from loss, destruction, falsification, unauthorized access and unauthorized release, in accordance with legislator^ regulatory, contractual and business requirements.	Platform and data-appropriate encryption (e.g., AES-256) in open/validated formats and standard algorithms shall be required. Keys shall not be stored in the cloud (i.e., at the cloud provider in question), but maintained by the cloud consumer or trusted key management provider. Key management and key usage shall be separated duties.
0	Managers shall regularly review the compliance of information processing and procedures within their area of responsibility with the appropriate security policies, standards and any other security requirements.	A formal disciplinary or sanction policy shall be established for employees who have violated security policies and procedures. Employees shall be made aware of what action might be taken in the event of a violation, and disciplinary measures must be stated in the policies and procedures.
1	Immediately revoke access for any terminated users.	Timely de-provisioning (revocation or modification) of user access to data and organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) applications, infrastructure systems, and network components, shall be implemented as per established policies and procedures and based on user's change in status (e.g., termination of employment or other business relationship, job change, or transfer). Upon request, provider shall inform customer (tenant) of these changes, especially if customer (tenant) data is used as part the service and/or customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of control.
0	Encrypt all non-console administrative access using strong cryptography.	Each operating system shall be hardened to provide only necessary ports, protocols, and services to meet business needs and have in place supporting technical controls such as: antivirus, file integrity monitoring, and logging as part of their baseline operating build standard or template.
1	The organization: a. Implements an incident handling capability for security incidents that includes preparation, detection and analysis, containment, eradication, and recovery; b. Coordinates incident handling activities with contingency planning activities; and c. Incorporates lessons learned from ongoing incident handling activities into incident response procedures, training, and testing/exercises, and implements the resulting changes accordingly.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to triage security-related events and ensure timely and thorough incident management, as per established IT service management policies and procedures.
0	Information systems shall be regularly reviewed for compliance with the organization's information security policies and standards.	Ingress and egress to secure areas shall be constrained and monitored by physical access control mechanisms to ensure that only authorized personnel are allowed access.
1	Deny communications with known malicious or unused Internet IP addresses and limit access only to trusted and necessary IP address ranges at each of the organization’s network boundaries.	Network architecture diagrams shall clearly identify high-risk environments and data flows that may have legal compliance impacts. Technical measures shall be implemented and shall apply defense-in-depth techniques (e.g., deep packet analysis, traffic throttling, and black-holing) for detection and timely response to network-based attacks associated with anomalous ingress or egress traffic patterns (e.g., MAC spoofing and ARP poisoning attacks) and/or distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) attacks.
0	Data Subjects have a right to adequate and easily accessible notice of the use and disclosures of their PII that may be made by the PII controller, and of the data subject's rights and the contoller’s legal duties with respect to PII.	Data Subjects have a right to adequate and easily accessible notice of the use and disclosures of their PII that may be made by the PII controller, and of the data subject's rights and the contoller’s legal duties with respect to PII.
1	The information system automatically disables inactive accounts after [Assignment: organization-defined time period]. 	Timely de-provisioning (revocation or modification) of user access to data and organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) applications, infrastructure systems, and network components, shall be implemented as per established policies and procedures and based on user's change in status (e.g., termination of employment or other business relationship, job change, or transfer). Upon request, provider shall inform customer (tenant) of these changes, especially if customer (tenant) data is used as part the service and/or customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of control.
1	Implement physical and/or logical controls to restrict access to publicly accessible network jacks.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes implemented, for maintaining a safe and secure working environment in offices, rooms, facilities, and secure areas storing sensitive information.
0	o Does the provider have a formal process in place for detecting, identifying, analyzing and responding to incidents?	The company shall have a documented application validation process to test for mobile device, operating system, and application compatibility issues.
0	Deploy system configuration management tools that will automatically enforce and redeploy configuration settings to systems at regularly scheduled intervals.	Physical protection against damage from natural causes and disasters, as well as deliberate attacks, including fire, flood, atmospheric electrical discharge, solar induced geomagnetic storm, wind, earthquake, tsunami, explosion, nuclear accident, volcanic activity, biological hazard, civil unrest, mudslide, tectonic activity, and other forms of natural or man-made disaster shall be anticipated, designed, and have countermeasures applied.
1	Compare all network device configuration against approved security configurations defined for each network device in use and alert when any deviations are discovered.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to protect wireless network environments, including the following:  • Perimeter firewalls implemented and configured to restrict unauthorized traffic  • Security settings enabled with strong encryption for authentication and transmission, replacing vendor default settings (e.g., encryption keys, passwords, and SNMP community strings)  • User access to wireless network devices restricted to authorized personnel  • The capability to detect the presence of unauthorized (rogue) wireless network devices for a timely disconnect from the network
1	A formal policy shall be in place, and appropriate security measures shall be adopted to protect against the risks of using mobile computing and communication devices.	All mobile devices permitted for use through the company BYOD program or a company-assigned mobile device shall allow for remote wipe by the company's corporate IT or shall have all company-provided data wiped by the company's corporate IT.
1	Organizations shall develop and maintain a risk management program to manage risk to an acceptable level.	Risks shall be mitigated to an acceptable level. Acceptance levels based on risk criteria shall be established and documented in accordance with reasonable resolution time frames and stakeholder approval.
0	A formal user access provisioning process shall be implemented to assign or revoke access rights for all user types to all systems and services.	Physical security perimeters (e.g., fences, walls, barriers, guards, gates, electronic surveillance, physical authentication mechanisms, reception desks, and security patrols) shall be implemented to safeguard sensitive data and information systems.
1	Management shall require employees, and where applicable, contractors and third-party users, to apply security in accordance with established policies and procedures of the organization.	All cloud-based services used by the company's mobile devices or BYOD shall be pre-approved for usage and the storage of company business data.
0	The implementation of changes, including patches, service packs, and other updates and modifications, shall be controlled by the use of formal change control procedures.	Executive and line management shall take formal action to support information security through clearly-documented direction and commitment, and shall ensure the action has been assigned.
0	Configure access for all accounts through as few centralized points of authentication as possible, including network, security, and cloud systems.	Timely de-provisioning (revocation or modification) of user access to data and organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) applications, infrastructure systems, and network components, shall be implemented as per established policies and procedures and based on user's change in status (e.g., termination of employment or other business relationship, job change, or transfer). Upon request, provider shall inform customer (tenant) of these changes, especially if customer (tenant) data is used as part the service and/or customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of control.
1	Acceptance criteria for new information systems, upgrades, and new versions shall be established and suitable tests of the system(s) carried out during development and prior to acceptance to maintain security.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to ensure the development and/or acquisition of new data, physical or virtual applications, infrastructure network, and systems components, or any corporate, operations and/or data center facilities have been pre-authorized by the organization's business leadership or other accountable business role or function.
0	The information system implements multifactor authentication for network access to privileged accounts.	Business continuity and security incident response plans shall be subject to testing at planned intervals or upon significant organizational or environmental changes. Incident response plans shall involve impacted customers (tenant) and other business relationships that represent critical intra-supply chain business process dependencies.
1	Store secret and private keys used to encrypt/decrypt cardholder data in one (or more) of the following forms at all times:  Encrypted with a key-encrypting key that is at least as strong as the data- encrypting key, and that is stored separately from the data-encrypting key  Within a secure cryptographic device (such as a hardware (host) security module (HSM) or PTS-approved point-of-interaction device)  As at least two full-length key components or key shares, in accordance with an industry- accepted method	Platform and data-appropriate encryption (e.g., AES-256) in open/validated formats and standard algorithms shall be required. Keys shall not be stored in the cloud (i.e., at the cloud provider in question), but maintained by the cloud consumer or trusted key management provider. Key management and key usage shall be separated duties.
0	Place system components that store cardholder data (such as a database) in an internal network zone, segregated from the DMZ and other untrusted networks.	All mobile devices permitted for use through the company BYOD program or a company-assigned mobile device shall allow for remote wipe by the company's corporate IT or shall have all company-provided data wiped by the company's corporate IT.
0	A formal user access provisioning process shall be implemented to assign or revoke access rights for all user types to all systems and services.	Platform and data-appropriate encryption (e.g., AES-256) in open/validated formats and standard algorithms shall be required. Keys shall not be stored in the cloud (i.e., at the cloud provider in question), but maintained by the cloud consumer or trusted key management provider. Key management and key usage shall be separated duties.
0	The organization includes as part of security control assessments, [Assignment: organization- defined frequency], [Selection: announced; unannounced], [Selection (one or more): in-depth monitoring; vulnerability scanning; malicious user testing; insider threat assessment; performance/load testing; [Assignment: organization-defined other forms of security assessment]].	The organization includes as part of security control assessments, [Assignment: organization- defined frequency], [Selection: announced; unannounced], [Selection (one or more): in-depth monitoring; vulnerability scanning; malicious user testing; insider threat assessment; performance/load testing; [Assignment: organization-defined other forms of security assessment]].
0	Information systems shall be regularly reviewed for compliance with the organization's information security policies and standards.	Keys must have identifiable owners (binding keys to identities) and there shall be key management policies.
0	• How are the keys protected?	Mobile devices connecting to corporate networks, or storing and accessing company information, shall allow for remote software version/patch validation. All mobile devices shall have the latest available security-related patches installed upon general release by the device manufacturer or carrier and authorized IT personnel shall be able to perform these updates remotely.
1	The organization:  a. Develops, documents, and disseminates to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]:    1. A physical and environmental protection policy that addresses purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment, coordination among organizational entities, and compliance; and    2. Procedures to facilitate the implementation of the physical and environmental protection policy and associated physical and environmental protection controls; and  b. Reviews and updates the current:    1. Physical and environmental protection policy [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and    2. Physical and environmental protection procedures [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	Data center utilities services and environmental conditions (e.g., water, power, temperature and humidity controls, telecommunications, and internet connectivity) shall be secured, monitored, maintained, and tested for continual effectiveness at planned intervals to ensure protection from unauthorized interception or damage, and designed with automated fail-over or other redundancies in the event of planned or unplanned disruptions.
0	Utilize centrally managed anti-malware software to continuously monitor and defend each of the organization’s workstations and servers.	Points of contact for applicable regulation authorities, national and local law enforcement, and other legal jurisdictional authorities shall be maintained and regularly updated (e.g., change in impacted-scope and/or a change in any compliance obligation) to ensure direct compliance liaisons have been established and to be prepared for a forensic investigation requiring rapid engagement with law enforcement.
1	Use appropriate facility entry controls to limit and monitor physical access to systems in the cardholder data environment.	Ingress and egress points such as service areas and other points where unauthorized personnel may enter the premises shall be monitored, controlled and, if possible, isolated from data storage and processing facilities to prevent unauthorized data corruption, compromise, and loss.
0	• Define those services that are outsourced or subcontracted in your service delivery supply chain that are key to the security (including availability) of your operations.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to protect wireless network environments, including the following:  • Perimeter firewalls implemented and configured to restrict unauthorized traffic  • Security settings enabled with strong encryption for authentication and transmission, replacing vendor default settings (e.g., encryption keys, passwords, and SNMP community strings)  • User access to wireless network devices restricted to authorized personnel  • The capability to detect the presence of unauthorized (rogue) wireless network devices for a timely disconnect from the network
1	o Does the provider have a formal process in place for detecting, identifying, analyzing and responding to incidents?	Higher levels of assurance are required for protection, retention, and lifecycle management of audit logs, adhering to applicable legal, statutory or regulatory compliance obligations and providing unique user access accountability to detect potentially suspicious network behaviors and/or file integrity anomalies, and to support forensic investigative capabilities in the event of a security breach.
1	The information system uniquely identifies and authenticates organizational users (or processes acting on behalf of organizational users).	Internal corporate or customer (tenant) user account credentials shall be restricted as per the following, ensuring appropriate identity, entitlement, and access management and in accordance with established policies and procedures:  • Identity trust verification and service-to-service application (API) and information processing interoperability (e.g., SSO and Federation)  • Account credential lifecycle management from instantiation through revocation  • Account credential and/or identity store minimization or re-use when feasible  • Adherence to industry acceptable and/or regulatory compliant authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules (e.g., strong/multi-factor, expireable, non-shared authentication secrets)
1	The organization provides a short-term uninterruptible power supply to facilitate [Selection (one or more): an orderly shutdown of the information system; transition of the information system to long-term alternate power] in the event of a primary power source loss.	Data center utilities services and environmental conditions (e.g., water, power, temperature and humidity controls, telecommunications, and internet connectivity) shall be secured, monitored, maintained, and tested for continual effectiveness at planned intervals to ensure protection from unauthorized interception or damage, and designed with automated fail-over or other redundancies in the event of planned or unplanned disruptions.
0	Networks shall be managed and controlled to protect information in systems and applications.	Organizations shall follow a defined quality change control and testing process (e.g., ITIL Service Management) with established baselines, testing, and release standards that focus on system availability, confidentiality, and integrity of systems and services.
0	A visitor log is used to maintain a physical audit trail of visitor activity to the facility as well as computer rooms and data centers where cardholder data is stored or transmitted.	Data and objects containing data shall be assigned a classification by the data owner based on data type, value, sensitivity, and criticality to the organization.
0	Follow up exceptions and anomalies identified during the review process.	Business-critical or customer (tenant) impacting (physical and virtual) application and system-system interface (API) designs and configurations, and infrastructure network and systems components, shall be designed, developed, and deployed in accordance with mutually agreed-upon service and capacity-level expectations, as well as IT governance and service management policies and procedures.
0	Manage IDs used by third parties to access, support, or maintain system components via remote access as follows:  Enabled only during the time period needed and disabled when not in use.  Monitored when in use.	Risk assessments associated with data governance requirements shall be conducted at planned intervals and shall consider the following:  • Awareness of where sensitive data is stored and transmitted across applications, databases, servers, and network infrastructure  • Compliance with defined retention periods and end-of-life disposal requirements  • Data classification and protection from unauthorized use, access, loss, destruction, and falsification
1	Screen potential personnel prior to hire to minimize the risk of attacks from internal sources. (Examples of background checks include previous employment history, criminal record, credit history, and reference checks.)	Pursuant to local laws, regulations, ethics, and contractual constraints, all employment candidates, contractors, and third parties shall be subject to background verification proportional to the data classification to be accessed, the business requirements, and acceptable risk.
1	Compare all network device configuration against approved security configurations defined for each network device in use and alert when any deviations are discovered.	Secured and encrypted communication channels shall be used when migrating physical servers, applications, or data to virtualized servers and, where possible, shall use a network segregated from production-level networks for such migrations.
0	Records shall be protected from loss, destruction, falsification, unauthorized access and unauthorized release, in accordance with legislator^ regulatory, contractual and business requirements.	Network environments and virtual instances shall be designed and configured to restrict and monitor traffic between trusted and untrusted connections. These configurations shall be reviewed at least annually, and supported by a documented justification for use for all allowed services, protocols, ports, and by compensating controls.
1	o How are severity levels defined?	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to triage security-related events and ensure timely and thorough incident management, as per established IT service management policies and procedures.
0	o Does the provider have an automated means to inventory all assets, which facilitates their appropriate management?	Risk assessments associated with data governance requirements shall be conducted at planned intervals and shall consider the following:  • Awareness of where sensitive data is stored and transmitted across applications, databases, servers, and network infrastructure  • Compliance with defined retention periods and end-of-life disposal requirements  • Data classification and protection from unauthorized use, access, loss, destruction, and falsification
0	Limit access to scripting tools (such as Microsoft PowerShell and Python) to only administrative or development users with the need to access those capabilities.	Each operating system shall be hardened to provide only necessary ports, protocols, and services to meet business needs and have in place supporting technical controls such as: antivirus, file integrity monitoring, and logging as part of their baseline operating build standard or template.
0	The organization allocates audit record storage capacity in accordance with [Assignment: organization-defined audit record storage requirements].	The organization allocates audit record storage capacity in accordance with [Assignment: organization-defined audit record storage requirements].
0	Deploy a change-detection mechanism (for example, file-integrity monitoring tools) to alert personnel to unauthorized modification (including changes, additions, and deletions) of critical system files, configuration files, or content files; and configure the software to perform critical file comparisons at least weekly.	Data center utilities services and environmental conditions (e.g., water, power, temperature and humidity controls, telecommunications, and internet connectivity) shall be secured, monitored, maintained, and tested for continual effectiveness at planned intervals to ensure protection from unauthorized interception or damage, and designed with automated fail-over or other redundancies in the event of planned or unplanned disruptions.
0	The organization:  a. Develops, documents, and disseminates to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]:    1. A physical and environmental protection policy that addresses purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment, coordination among organizational entities, and compliance; and    2. Procedures to facilitate the implementation of the physical and environmental protection policy and associated physical and environmental protection controls; and  b. Reviews and updates the current:    1. Physical and environmental protection policy [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and    2. Physical and environmental protection procedures [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	The BYOD policy shall clarify the systems and servers allowed for use or access on a BYOD-enabled device.
1	Insecure communications	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for the use of encryption protocols for protection of sensitive data in storage (e.g., file servers, databases, and end-user workstations), data in use (memory), and data in transmission (e.g., system interfaces, over public networks, and electronic messaging) as per applicable legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations.
1	Regularly compare the results from backto-back vulnerability scans to verify that vulnerabilities have been remediated in a timely manner.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting processes and technical measures implemented, for timely detection of vulnerabilities within organizationally-owned or managed applications, infrastructure network and system components (e.g., network vulnerability assessment, penetration testing) to ensure the efficiency of implemented security controls. A risk-based model for prioritizing remediation of identified vulnerabilities shall be used. Changes shall be managed through a change management process for all vendor-supplied patches, configuration changes, or changes to the organization's internally developed software. Upon request, the provider informs customer (tenant) of policies and procedures and identified weaknesses especially if customer (tenant) data is used as part the service and/or customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of control.
0	The organization:  a. Develops, documents, and disseminates to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]:    1. A system and information integrity policy that addresses purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment, coordination among organizational entities, and compliance; and    2. Procedures to facilitate the implementation of the system and information integrity policy and associated system and information integrity controls; and  b. Reviews and updates the current:    1. System and information integrity policy [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and    2.  System and information integrity procedures [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	Business-critical or customer (tenant) impacting (physical and virtual) application and system-system interface (API) designs and configurations, and infrastructure network and systems components, shall be designed, developed, and deployed in accordance with mutually agreed-upon service and capacity-level expectations, as well as IT governance and service management policies and procedures.
0	All employees of the organization and contractors and third-party users shall receive appropriate awareness training and regular updates in organizational policies and procedures, as relevant for their job function.	Requirements for non-disclosure or confidentiality agreements reflecting the organization's needs for the protection of data and operational details shall be identified, documented, and reviewed at planned intervals.
1	Mobile code shall be authorized before its installation and use, and the configuration shall ensure that the authorized mobile code operates according to a clearly defined security policy. All unauthorized mobile code shall be prevented from executing.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to prevent the execution of unauthorized mobile code, defined as software transferred between systems over a trusted or untrusted network and executed on a local system without explicit installation or execution by the recipient, on organizationally-owned or managed user end-point devices (e.g., issued workstations, laptops, and mobile devices) and IT infrastructure network and systems components.
0	The organization establishes terms and conditions, consistent with any trust relationships established with other organizations owning, operating, and/or maintaining external information systems, allowing authorized individuals to:  a. Access the information system from external information systems; and  b. Process, store, or transmit organization-controlled information using external information systems.	Utility programs capable of potentially overriding system, object, network, virtual machine, and application controls shall be restricted.
1	Organizations shall regularly monitor, review and audit supplier service delivery.	Third-party service providers shall demonstrate compliance with information security and confidentiality, access control, service definitions, and delivery level agreements included in third-party contracts. Third-party reports, records, and services shall undergo audit and review at least annually to govern and maintain compliance with the service delivery agreements.
1	The organization:  a. Develops an incident response plan that:    1. Provides the organization with a roadmap for implementing its incident response capability;    2. Describes the structure and organization of the incident response capability;    3. Provides a high-level approach for how the incident response capability fits into the overall organization;    4. Meets the unique requirements of the organization, which relate to mission, size, structure, and functions;    5. Defines reportable incidents;    6. Provides metrics for measuring the incident response capability within the organization;    7. Defines the resources and management support needed to effectively maintain and mature an incident response capability; and    8. Is reviewed and approved by [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles];  b. Distributes copies of the incident response plan to [Assignment: organization-defined incident response personnel (identified by name and/or by role) and organizational elements];  c. Reviews the incident response plan [Assignment: organization-defined frequency];  d. Updates the incident response plan to address system/organizational changes or problems encountered during plan implementation, execution, or testing;   e. Communicates incident response plan changes to [Assignment: organization-defined incident response personnel (identified by name and/or by role) and organizational elements]; and f. Protects the incident response plan from unauthorized disclosure and modification.	Mechanisms shall be put in place to monitor and quantify the types, volumes, and costs of information security incidents.
1	Managers shall regularly review the compliance of information processing and procedures within their area of responsibility with the appropriate security policies, standards and any other security requirements.	Policies, procedures, and mutually-agreed upon provisions and/or terms shall be established to satisfy customer (tenant) requirements for service-to-service application (API) and information processing interoperability, and portability for application development and information exchange, usage, and integrity persistence.
1	The organization:  a. Develops, documents, and disseminates to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]:    1. A security awareness and training policy that addresses purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment, coordination among organizational entities, and compliance; and    2.  Procedures to facilitate the implementation of the security awareness and training policy and associated security awareness and training controls; and  b. Reviews and updates the current:    1. Security awareness and training policy [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and    2.  Security awareness and training procedures [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for appropriate IT governance and service management to ensure appropriate planning, delivery, and support of the organization's IT capabilities supporting business functions, workforce, and/or customers based on industry acceptable standards (i.e., ITIL v4 and COBIT 5). Additionally, policies and procedures shall include defined roles and responsibilities supported by regular workforce training.
1	Ensure that local logging has been enabled on all systems and networking devices.	Higher levels of assurance are required for protection, retention, and lifecycle management of audit logs, adhering to applicable legal, statutory or regulatory compliance obligations and providing unique user access accountability to detect potentially suspicious network behaviors and/or file integrity anomalies, and to support forensic investigative capabilities in the event of a security breach.
1	Events that can cause interruptions to business processes shall be identified, along with the probability and impact of such interruptions and their consequences for information security.	There shall be a defined and documented method for determining the impact of any disruption to the organization (cloud provider, cloud consumer) that must incorporate the following:  • Identify critical products and services  • Identify all dependencies, including processes, applications, business partners, and third party service providers  • Understand threats to critical products and services  • Determine impacts resulting from planned or unplanned disruptions and how these vary over time  • Establish the maximum tolerable period for disruption  • Establish priorities for recovery  • Establish recovery time objectives for resumption of critical products and services within their maximum tolerable period of disruption  • Estimate the resources required for resumption
0	Procedures for handling assets shall be developed and implemented in accordance with the information classification scheme adopted by the organization.	Provisioning user access (e.g., employees, contractors, customers (tenants), business partners, and/or supplier relationships) to data and organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) applications, infrastructure systems, and network components shall be authorized by the organization's management prior to access being granted and appropriately restricted as per established policies and procedures. Upon request, provider shall inform customer (tenant) of this user access, especially if customer (tenant) data is used as part the service and/or customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of control.
1	The organization provides basic security awareness training to information system users (including managers, senior executives, and contractors):  a. As part of initial training for new users;  b. When required by information system changes; and  c. [Assignment: organization-defined frequency] thereafter.	Anti-malware awareness training, specific to mobile devices, shall be included in the provider's information security awareness training.
1	Ensure network engineers use a dedicated machine for all administrative tasks or tasks requiring elevated access. This machine shall be segmented from the organization’s primary network and not be allowed Internet access. This machine shall not be used for reading email, composing documents, or surfing the Internet.	Provisioning user access (e.g., employees, contractors, customers (tenants), business partners, and/or supplier relationships) to data and organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) applications, infrastructure systems, and network components shall be authorized by the organization's management prior to access being granted and appropriately restricted as per established policies and procedures. Upon request, provider shall inform customer (tenant) of this user access, especially if customer (tenant) data is used as part the service and/or customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of control.
0	Information involved in electronic messaging shall be appropriately protected.	Policies and procedures shall be established and maintained in support of data security to include (confidentiality, integrity, and availability) across multiple system interfaces, jurisdictions, and business functions to prevent improper disclosure, alteration, or destruction.
1	The information system separates information flows logically or physically using [Assignment: organization-defined mechanisms and/or techniques] to accomplish [Assignment: organization- defined required separations by types of information].	Network environments and virtual instances shall be designed and configured to restrict and monitor traffic between trusted and untrusted connections. These configurations shall be reviewed at least annually, and supported by a documented justification for use for all allowed services, protocols, ports, and by compensating controls.
0	Where a follow-up action against a person or organization after an information security incident involves legal action (either civil or criminal), evidence shall be collected, retained, and presented in support of potential legal action in accordance with the rules for evidence in the relevant jurisdiction(s).	Ingress and egress points such as service areas and other points where unauthorized personnel may enter the premises shall be monitored, controlled and, if possible, isolated from data storage and processing facilities to prevent unauthorized data corruption, compromise, and loss.
0	Establish, document, and distribute security incident response and escalation procedures to ensure timely and effective handling of all situations.	Data and objects containing data shall be assigned a classification by the data owner based on data type, value, sensitivity, and criticality to the organization.
1	The allocation and use of privileged access rights shall be restricted and controlled.	Timely de-provisioning (revocation or modification) of user access to data and organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) applications, infrastructure systems, and network components, shall be implemented as per established policies and procedures and based on user's change in status (e.g., termination of employment or other business relationship, job change, or transfer). Upon request, provider shall inform customer (tenant) of these changes, especially if customer (tenant) data is used as part the service and/or customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of control.
0	The organization reviews and updates the audited events [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	Policies, procedures, and mutually-agreed upon provisions and/or terms shall be established to satisfy customer (tenant) requirements for service-to-service application (API) and information processing interoperability, and portability for application development and information exchange, usage, and integrity persistence.
0	On a regular basis, review logs to identify anomalies or abnormal events.	Ingress and egress points such as service areas and other points where unauthorized personnel may enter the premises shall be monitored, controlled and, if possible, isolated from data storage and processing facilities to prevent unauthorized data corruption, compromise, and loss.
0	Physical protection and guidelines for working in secure areas shall be designed and applied.	Managers are responsible for maintaining awareness of, and complying with, security policies, procedures, and standards that are relevant to their area of responsibility.
1	Leverage the Advanced Encryption Standard (AES) to encrypt wireless data in transit.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to protect wireless network environments, including the following:  • Perimeter firewalls implemented and configured to restrict unauthorized traffic  • Security settings enabled with strong encryption for authentication and transmission, replacing vendor default settings (e.g., encryption keys, passwords, and SNMP community strings)  • User access to wireless network devices restricted to authorized personnel  • The capability to detect the presence of unauthorized (rogue) wireless network devices for a timely disconnect from the network
1	Ensure that all of the organization’s key systems are backed up as a complete system, through processes such as imaging, to enable the quick recovery of an entire system.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for defining and adhering to the retention period of any critical asset as per established policies and procedures, as well as applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance obligations. Backup and recovery measures shall be incorporated as part of business continuity planning and tested accordingly for effectiveness.
1	Educate personnel upon hire and at least annually.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for appropriate IT governance and service management to ensure appropriate planning, delivery, and support of the organization's IT capabilities supporting business functions, workforce, and/or customers based on industry acceptable standards (i.e., ITIL v4 and COBIT 5). Additionally, policies and procedures shall include defined roles and responsibilities supported by regular workforce training.
0	Never send unprotected PANs by end- user messaging technologies (for example, e- mail, instant messaging, SMS, chat, etc.).	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to protect wireless network environments, including the following:  • Perimeter firewalls implemented and configured to restrict unauthorized traffic  • Security settings enabled with strong encryption for authentication and transmission, replacing vendor default settings (e.g., encryption keys, passwords, and SNMP community strings)  • User access to wireless network devices restricted to authorized personnel  • The capability to detect the presence of unauthorized (rogue) wireless network devices for a timely disconnect from the network
0	Keep cardholder data storage to a minimum by implementing data retention and disposal policies, procedures and processes that include at least the following for all cardholder data (CHD) storage:  Limiting data storage amount and retention time to that which is required for legal, regulatory, and/or business requirements  Specific retention requirements for cardholder data  Processes for secure deletion of data when no longer needed  A quarterly process for identifying and securely deleting stored cardholder data that exceeds defined retention.PCI DSS Requirements	Providers shall review the risk management and governance processes of their partners so that practices are consistent and aligned to account for risks inherited from other members of that partner's cloud supply chain.
0	Physically secure all media.	Implementers shall ensure that the security vulnerability assessment tools or services accommodate the virtualization technologies used (e.g., virtualization aware).
1	The organization develops, documents, and maintains under configuration control, a current baseline configuration of the information system.	Baseline security requirements shall be established for developed or acquired, organizationally-owned or managed, physical or virtual, applications and infrastructure system and network components that comply with applicable legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations. Deviations from standard baseline configurations must be authorized following change management policies and procedures prior to deployment, provisioning, or use. Compliance with security baseline requirements must be reassessed at least annually unless an alternate frequency has been established and authorized based on business needs.
1	Equipment shall be protected from power failures and other disruptions caused by failures in supporting utilities.	Physical protection against damage from natural causes and disasters, as well as deliberate attacks, including fire, flood, atmospheric electrical discharge, solar induced geomagnetic storm, wind, earthquake, tsunami, explosion, nuclear accident, volcanic activity, biological hazard, civil unrest, mudslide, tectonic activity, and other forms of natural or man-made disaster shall be anticipated, designed, and have countermeasures applied.
0	Rules for the acceptable use of information and of assets associated with information and information processing facilities shall be identified, documented and implemented.	The company shall have a documented application validation process to test for mobile device, operating system, and application compatibility issues.
0	• Can the provider confirm that the virtualised image does not contain the authentication credentials?	An Information Security Management Program (ISMP) shall be developed, documented, approved, and implemented that includes administrative, technical, and physical safeguards to protect assets and data from loss, misuse, unauthorized access, disclosure, alteration, and destruction. The security program shall include, but not be limited to, the following areas insofar as they relate to the characteristics of the business:  • Risk management  • Security policy  • Organization of information security  • Asset management  • Human resources security  • Physical and environmental security  • Communications and operations management  • Access control  • Information systems acquisition, development, and maintenance
0	Privacy and protection of personally identifiable information shall be ensured as required in relevant legislation and regulation where applicable.	The provider shall use open and published APIs to ensure support for interoperability between components and to facilitate migrating applications.
1	Information systems shall be regularly reviewed for compliance with the organization's information security policies and standards.	The provider shall use secure (e.g., non-clear text and authenticated) standardized network protocols for the import and export of data and to manage the service, and shall make available a document to consumers (tenants) detailing the relevant interoperability and portability standards that are involved.
1	Restrict access to privileged user IDs to least privileges necessary to perform job responsibilities.	Policies and procedures are established for permissible storage and access of identities used for authentication to ensure identities are only accessible based on rules of least privilege and replication limitation only to users explicitly defined as business necessary.
1	When operating platforms are changed, business critical applications shall be reviewed and tested to ensure there is no adverse impact on organizational operations or security.	The provider shall have a documented mobile device policy that includes a documented definition for mobile devices and the acceptable usage and requirements for all mobile devices. The provider shall post and communicate the policy and requirements through the company's security awareness and training program.
1	All information security responsibilities shall be clearly defined.	Roles and responsibilities of contractors, employees, and third-party users shall be documented as they relate to information assets and security.
1	The organization:  a. Marks information system media indicating the distribution limitations, handling caveats, and applicable security markings (if any) of the information; and  b. Exempts [Assignment: organization-defined types of information system media] from marking as long as the media remain within [Assignment: organization-defined controlled areas].	Policies and procedures shall be established for the labeling, handling, and security of data and objects which contain data. Mechanisms for label inheritance shall be implemented for objects that act as aggregate containers for data.
0	The organization: a. Uses software and associated documentation in accordance with contract agreements and copyright laws; b. Tracks the use of software and associated documentation protected by quantity licenses to control copying and distribution; and c. Controls and documents the use of peer-to-peer file sharing technology to ensure that this capability is not used for the unauthorized distribution, display, performance, or reproduction of copyrighted work.	A documented list of approved application stores has been defined as acceptable for mobile devices accessing or storing provider managed data.
1	• How do you validate that new releases are fit-for-purpose or do not have risks (backdoors, Trojans, etc)? Are these reviewed before use?	Organizations shall follow a defined quality change control and testing process (e.g., ITIL Service Management) with established baselines, testing, and release standards that focus on system availability, confidentiality, and integrity of systems and services.
0	Immediately revoke access for any terminated users.	Managers are responsible for maintaining awareness of, and complying with, security policies, procedures, and standards that are relevant to their area of responsibility.
0	The organization controls physical access to information system output devices to prevent unauthorized individuals from obtaining the output.	Access to, and use of, audit tools that interact with the organization's information systems shall be appropriately segregated and access restricted to prevent inappropriate disclosure and tampering of log data.
0	The organization:  (a)   Limits privileges to change information system components and system-related information within a production or operational environment; and  (b)   Reviews and reevaluates privileges [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	There shall be a defined and documented method for determining the impact of any disruption to the organization (cloud provider, cloud consumer) that must incorporate the following:  • Identify critical products and services  • Identify all dependencies, including processes, applications, business partners, and third party service providers  • Understand threats to critical products and services  • Determine impacts resulting from planned or unplanned disruptions and how these vary over time  • Establish the maximum tolerable period for disruption  • Establish priorities for recovery  • Establish recovery time objectives for resumption of critical products and services within their maximum tolerable period of disruption  • Estimate the resources required for resumption
0	The organization defines, documents, approves, and enforces physical and logical access restrictions associated with changes to the information system.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to manage business risks associated with permitting mobile device access to corporate resources and may require the implementation of higher assurance compensating controls and acceptable-use policies and procedures (e.g., mandated security training, stronger identity, entitlement and access controls, and device monitoring).
0	Networks shall be managed and controlled to protect information in systems and applications.	Policies and procedures are established for permissible storage and access of identities used for authentication to ensure identities are only accessible based on rules of least privilege and replication limitation only to users explicitly defined as business necessary.
0	The organization:  (a)   Issues [Assignment: organization-defined information systems, system components, or devices] with [Assignment: organization-defined configurations] to individuals traveling to locations that the organization deems to be of significant risk; and  (b)   Applies [Assignment: organization-defined security safeguards] to the devices when the individuals return.	The organization:  (a)   Issues [Assignment: organization-defined information systems, system components, or devices] with [Assignment: organization-defined configurations] to individuals traveling to locations that the organization deems to be of significant risk; and  (b)   Applies [Assignment: organization-defined security safeguards] to the devices when the individuals return.
0	The organization:  a. Conducts an assessment of risk, including the likelihood and magnitude of harm, from the unauthorized access, use, disclosure, disruption, modification, or destruction of the information system and the information it processes, stores, or transmits;  b. Documents risk assessment results in [Selection: security plan; risk assessment report; [Assignment: organization-defined document]];  c. Reviews risk assessment results [Assignment: organization-defined frequency];  d. Disseminates risk assessment results to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]; and  e. Updates the risk assessment [Assignment: organization-defined frequency] or whenever there are significant changes to the information system or environment of operation (including the identification of new threats and vulnerabilities), or other conditions that may impact the security state of the system.	Requirements for non-disclosure or confidentiality agreements reflecting the organization's needs for the protection of data and operational details shall be identified, documented, and reviewed at planned intervals.
0	The organization employs automated mechanisms to support the incident handling process.	The organization employs automated mechanisms to support the incident handling process.
0	Utilize centrally managed anti-malware software to continuously monitor and defend each of the organization’s workstations and servers.	The provider shall make security incident information available to all affected customers and providers periodically through electronic methods (e.g., portals).
1	Encrypt all non-console administrative access using strong cryptography.	External business partners shall adhere to the same policies and procedures for change management, release, and testing as internal developers within the organization (e.g., ITIL service management processes).
0	Maintain an inventory of system components that are in scope for PCI DSS.	Secured and encrypted communication channels shall be used when migrating physical servers, applications, or data to virtualized servers and, where possible, shall use a network segregated from production-level networks for such migrations.
0	Ensure network engineers use a dedicated machine for all administrative tasks or tasks requiring elevated access. This machine shall be segmented from the organization’s primary network and not be allowed Internet access. This machine shall not be used for reading email, composing documents, or surfing the Internet.	Physical security perimeters (e.g., fences, walls, barriers, guards, gates, electronic surveillance, physical authentication mechanisms, reception desks, and security patrols) shall be implemented to safeguard sensitive data and information systems.
1	• Specify the controls used to protect against malicious code.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to prevent the execution of malware on organizationally-owned or managed user end-point devices (i.e., issued workstations, laptops, and mobile devices) and IT infrastructure network and systems components.
0	Enable only necessary services, protocols, daemons, etc., as required for the function of the system.	Authorization must be obtained prior to relocation or transfer of hardware, software, or data to an offsite premises.
1	The organization plans for the resumption of essential missions and business functions within [Assignment: organization-defined time period] of contingency plan activation.	A consistent unified framework for business continuity planning and plan development shall be established, documented, and adopted to ensure all business continuity plans are consistent in addressing priorities for testing, maintenance, and information security requirements.  Requirements for business continuity plans include the following:  • Defined purpose and scope, aligned with relevant dependencies  • Accessible to and understood by those who will use them  • Owned by a named person(s) who is responsible for their review, update, and approval  • Defined lines of communication, roles, and responsibilities  • Detailed recovery procedures, manual work-around, and reference information  • Method for plan invocation
0	Utilize a risk-rating process to prioritize the remediation of discovered vulnerabilities.	Network architecture diagrams shall clearly identify high-risk environments and data flows that may have legal compliance impacts. Technical measures shall be implemented and shall apply defense-in-depth techniques (e.g., deep packet analysis, traffic throttling, and black-holing) for detection and timely response to network-based attacks associated with anomalous ingress or egress traffic patterns (e.g., MAC spoofing and ARP poisoning attacks) and/or distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) attacks.
1	All relevant legislative statutory, regulatory, contractual requirements and the organization's approach to meet these requirements shall be explicitly identified, documented and kept up to date for each information system and the organization.	Providers shall inspect, account for, and work with their cloud supply-chain partners to correct data quality errors and associated risks. Providers shall design and implement controls to mitigate and contain data security risks through proper separation of duties, role-based access, and least-privilege access for all personnel within their supply chain.
0	The organization:  a. Conducts an assessment of risk, including the likelihood and magnitude of harm, from the unauthorized access, use, disclosure, disruption, modification, or destruction of the information system and the information it processes, stores, or transmits;  b. Documents risk assessment results in [Selection: security plan; risk assessment report; [Assignment: organization-defined document]];  c. Reviews risk assessment results [Assignment: organization-defined frequency];  d. Disseminates risk assessment results to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]; and  e. Updates the risk assessment [Assignment: organization-defined frequency] or whenever there are significant changes to the information system or environment of operation (including the identification of new threats and vulnerabilities), or other conditions that may impact the security state of the system.	Baseline security requirements shall be established for developed or acquired, organizationally-owned or managed, physical or virtual, applications and infrastructure system and network components that comply with applicable legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations. Deviations from standard baseline configurations must be authorized following change management policies and procedures prior to deployment, provisioning, or use. Compliance with security baseline requirements must be reassessed at least annually unless an alternate frequency has been established and authorized based on business needs.
0	Generation of strong cryptographic keys	Points of contact for applicable regulation authorities, national and local law enforcement, and other legal jurisdictional authorities shall be maintained and regularly updated (e.g., change in impacted-scope and/or a change in any compliance obligation) to ensure direct compliance liaisons have been established and to be prepared for a forensic investigation requiring rapid engagement with law enforcement.
1	The organization provides basic security awareness training to information system users (including managers, senior executives, and contractors):  a. As part of initial training for new users;  b. When required by information system changes; and  c. [Assignment: organization-defined frequency] thereafter.	A security awareness training program shall be established for all contractors, third-party users, and employees of the organization and mandated when appropriate. All individuals with access to organizational data shall receive appropriate awareness training and regular updates in organizational procedures, processes, and policies relating to their professional function relative to the organization.
0	Use vulnerability scanning and penetration testing tools in concert. The results of vulnerability scanning assessments should be used as a starting point to guide and focus penetration testing efforts.	Assets must be classified in terms of business criticality, service-level expectations, and operational continuity requirements. A complete inventory of business-critical assets located at all sites and/or geographical locations and their usage over time shall be maintained and updated regularly, and assigned ownership by defined roles and responsibilities.
0	The information security related requirements shall be included in the requirements for new information systems or enhancements to existing information systems.	All personnel shall be made aware of their roles and responsibilities for:  • Maintaining awareness and compliance with established policies and procedures and applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance obligations.  • Maintaining a safe and secure working environment
0	Disable all workstation to workstation communication to limit an attacker’s ability to move laterally and compromise neighboring systems, through technologies such as Private VLANs or micro segmentation.	Baseline security requirements shall be established for developed or acquired, organizationally-owned or managed, physical or virtual, applications and infrastructure system and network components that comply with applicable legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations. Deviations from standard baseline configurations must be authorized following change management policies and procedures prior to deployment, provisioning, or use. Compliance with security baseline requirements must be reassessed at least annually unless an alternate frequency has been established and authorized based on business needs.
0	• What checks are made on the identity of user accounts at registration? Are any standards followed? For example, the e-Government Interoperability Framework? o Are there different levels of identity checks based on the resources required? 	Production data shall not be replicated or used in non-production environments. Any use of customer data in non-production environments requires explicit, documented approval from all customers whose data is affected, and must comply with all legal and regulatory requirements for scrubbing of sensitive data elements.
1	Equipment shall be sited and protected to reduce the risks from environmental threats and hazards, and opportunities for unauthorized access.	To reduce the risks from environmental threats, hazards, and opportunities for unauthorized access, equipment shall be kept away from locations subject to high probability environmental risks and supplemented by redundant equipment located at a reasonable distance.
0	Perform regular scans from outside each trusted network boundary to detect any unauthorized connections which are accessible across the boundary.	Perform regular scans from outside each trusted network boundary to detect any unauthorized connections which are accessible across the boundary.
0	All relevant information security requirements shall be established and agreed with each supplier that may access, process, store, communicate, or provide IT infrastructure components for, the organization's information.	Protection measures shall be put into place to react to natural and man-made threats based upon a geographically-specific business impact assessment.
0	Configure systems to issue a log entry and alert on unsuccessful logins to an administrative account.	All structured and unstructured data shall be available to the customer and provided to them upon request in an industry-standard format (e.g., .doc, .xls, .pdf, logs, and flat files).
0	The organization:  a. Develops, documents, and disseminates to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]:    1. An incident response policy that addresses purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment, coordination among organizational entities, and compliance; and    2. Procedures to facilitate the implementation of the incident response policy and associated incident response controls; and  b. Reviews and updates the current:    1. Incident response policy [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and    2. Incident response procedures [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes implemented, for maintaining a safe and secure working environment in offices, rooms, facilities, and secure areas storing sensitive information.
1	Use appropriate facility entry controls to limit and monitor physical access to systems in the cardholder data environment.	External business partners shall adhere to the same policies and procedures for change management, release, and testing as internal developers within the organization (e.g., ITIL service management processes).
0	Always change vendor-supplied defaults and remove or disable unnecessary default accounts before installing a system on the network.	All structured and unstructured data shall be available to the customer and provided to them upon request in an industry-standard format (e.g., .doc, .xls, .pdf, logs, and flat files).
1	Ensure that only authorized scripting languages are able to run in all web browsers and email clients.	All structured and unstructured data shall be available to the customer and provided to them upon request in an industry-standard format (e.g., .doc, .xls, .pdf, logs, and flat files).
1	Develop usage policies for critical technologies and define proper use of these technologies.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to manage business risks associated with permitting mobile device access to corporate resources and may require the implementation of higher assurance compensating controls and acceptable-use policies and procedures (e.g., mandated security training, stronger identity, entitlement and access controls, and device monitoring).
1	Restrict access to privileged user IDs to least privileges necessary to perform job responsibilities.	User access to diagnostic and configuration ports shall be restricted to authorized individuals and applications.
0	Educate personnel upon hire and at least annually.	Policies and procedures shall be established for the secure disposal of equipment (by asset type) used outside the organization's premises. This shall include a wiping solution or destruction process that renders recovery of information impossible. The erasure shall consist of a full overwrite of the drive to ensure that the erased drive is released to inventory for reuse and deployment, or securely stored until it can be destroyed.
1	User identification	Higher levels of assurance are required for protection, retention, and lifecycle management of audit logs, adhering to applicable legal, statutory or regulatory compliance obligations and providing unique user access accountability to detect potentially suspicious network behaviors and/or file integrity anomalies, and to support forensic investigative capabilities in the event of a security breach.
0	• Is the hardened virtual image protected from unauthorized access?	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to triage security-related events and ensure timely and thorough incident management, as per established IT service management policies and procedures.
0	Equipment, information or software shall not be taken off-site without prior authorization.	Implementers shall ensure that the security vulnerability assessment tools or services accommodate the virtualization technologies used (e.g., virtualization aware).
0	When operating platforms are changed, business critical applications shall be reviewed and tested to ensure there is no adverse impact on organizational operations or security.	Policies and procedures shall be implemented to ensure the consistent review of service agreements (e.g., SLAs) between providers and customers (tenants) across the relevant supply chain (upstream/downstream). Reviews shall be performed at least annually and identify any non-conformance to established agreements. The reviews should result in actions to address service-level conflicts or inconsistencies resulting from disparate supplier relationships.
1	Test data shall be selected carefully, protected and controlled.	Organizations shall follow a defined quality change control and testing process (e.g., ITIL Service Management) with established baselines, testing, and release standards that focus on system availability, confidentiality, and integrity of systems and services.
0	Maintain an up-to-date list of devices. The list should include the following:  Make, model of device  Location of device (for example, the address of the site or facility where the device is located)  Device serial number or other method of unique identification.PCI DSS Requirements	User access to diagnostic and configuration ports shall be restricted to authorized individuals and applications.
1	• Do you use role-based access control (RBAC)? Is the principle of least privilege followed?	Provisioning user access (e.g., employees, contractors, customers (tenants), business partners, and/or supplier relationships) to data and organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) applications, infrastructure systems, and network components shall be authorized by the organization's management prior to access being granted and appropriately restricted as per established policies and procedures. Upon request, provider shall inform customer (tenant) of this user access, especially if customer (tenant) data is used as part the service and/or customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of control.
1	• Is the hardened virtual image protected from unauthorized access?	Baseline security requirements shall be established for developed or acquired, organizationally-owned or managed, physical or virtual, applications and infrastructure system and network components that comply with applicable legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations. Deviations from standard baseline configurations must be authorized following change management policies and procedures prior to deployment, provisioning, or use. Compliance with security baseline requirements must be reassessed at least annually unless an alternate frequency has been established and authorized based on business needs.
0	The organization:  a. Develops, documents, and disseminates to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]:    1. A personnel security policy that addresses purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment, coordination among organizational entities, and compliance; and    2. Procedures to facilitate the implementation of the personnel security policy and associated personnel security controls; and  b. Reviews and updates the current:    1. Personnel security policy [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and    2. Personnel security procedures [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	Supply chain agreements (e.g., SLAs) between providers and customers (tenants) shall incorporate at least the following mutually-agreed upon provisions and/or terms:  • Scope of business relationship and services offered (e.g., customer (tenant) data acquisition, exchange and usage, feature sets and functionality, personnel and infrastructure network and systems components for service delivery and support, roles and responsibilities of provider and customer (tenant) and any subcontracted or outsourced business relationships, physical geographical location of hosted services, and any known regulatory compliance considerations)  • Information security requirements, provider and customer (tenant) primary points of contact for the duration of the business relationship, and references to detailed supporting and relevant business processes and technical measures implemented to enable effectively governance, risk management, assurance and legal, statutory and regulatory compliance obligations by all impacted business relationships  • Notification and/or pre-authorization of any changes controlled by the provider with customer (tenant) impacts  • Timely notification of a security incident (or confirmed breach) to all customers (tenants) and other business relationships impacted (i.e., up- and down-stream impacted supply chain)  • Assessment and independent verification of compliance with agreement provisions and/or terms (e.g., industry-acceptable certification, attestation audit report, or equivalent forms of assurance) without posing an unacceptable business risk of exposure to the organization being assessed  • Expiration of the business relationship and treatment of customer (tenant) data impacted  • Customer (tenant) service-to-service application (API) and data interoperability and portability requirements for application development and information exchange, usage, and integrity persistence
0	Do not store sensitive authentication data after authorization (even if encrypted). If sensitive authentication data is received, render all data unrecoverable upon completion of the authorization process.	User access to diagnostic and configuration ports shall be restricted to authorized individuals and applications.
1	If disk encryption is used (rather than file- or column-level database encryption), logical access must be managed separately and independently of native operating system authentication and access control mechanisms (for example, by not using local user account databases or general network login credentials). Decryption keys must not be associated with user accounts.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for the use of encryption protocols for protection of sensitive data in storage (e.g., file servers, databases, and end-user workstations), data in use (memory), and data in transmission (e.g., system interfaces, over public networks, and electronic messaging) as per applicable legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations.
1	The organization:  a. Develops, documents, and disseminates to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]:    1. An incident response policy that addresses purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment, coordination among organizational entities, and compliance; and    2. Procedures to facilitate the implementation of the incident response policy and associated incident response controls; and  b. Reviews and updates the current:    1. Incident response policy [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and    2. Incident response procedures [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	The organization's business leadership (or other accountable business role or function) shall review the information security policy at planned intervals or as a result of changes to the organization to ensure its continuing alignment with the security strategy, effectiveness, accuracy, relevance, and applicability to legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance obligations.
0	If USB storage devices are required, all data stored on such devices must be encrypted while at rest.	Data and objects containing data shall be assigned a classification by the data owner based on data type, value, sensitivity, and criticality to the organization.
0	All access rights shall be regularly reviewed by management via a formal documented process.	A documented list of approved application stores has been defined as acceptable for mobile devices accessing or storing provider managed data.
0	Disable wireless peripheral access of devices (such as Bluetooth and NFC), unless such access is required for a business purpose.	Disable wireless peripheral access of devices (such as Bluetooth and NFC), unless such access is required for a business purpose.
1	Conduct regular external and internal penetration tests to identify vulnerabilities and attack vectors that can be used to exploit enterprise systems successfully.	Implementers shall ensure that the security vulnerability assessment tools or services accommodate the virtualization technologies used (e.g., virtualization aware).
0	If disk encryption is used (rather than file- or column-level database encryption), logical access must be managed separately and independently of native operating system authentication and access control mechanisms (for example, by not using local user account databases or general network login credentials). Decryption keys must not be associated with user accounts.	Policies and procedures shall be established with supporting business processes and technical measures implemented for the secure disposal and complete removal of data from all storage media, ensuring data is not recoverable by any computer forensic means.
1	Ensure that all anti-virus mechanisms are maintained as follows:  Are kept current,  Perform periodic scans  Generate audit logs which are retained per PCI DSS Requirement 10.7.PCI DSS Requirements	Physical protection against damage from natural causes and disasters, as well as deliberate attacks, including fire, flood, atmospheric electrical discharge, solar induced geomagnetic storm, wind, earthquake, tsunami, explosion, nuclear accident, volcanic activity, biological hazard, civil unrest, mudslide, tectonic activity, and other forms of natural or man-made disaster shall be anticipated, designed, and have countermeasures applied.
1	Keep cardholder data storage to a minimum by implementing data retention and disposal policies, procedures and processes that include at least the following for all cardholder data (CHD) storage:  Limiting data storage amount and retention time to that which is required for legal, regulatory, and/or business requirements  Specific retention requirements for cardholder data  Processes for secure deletion of data when no longer needed  A quarterly process for identifying and securely deleting stored cardholder data that exceeds defined retention.PCI DSS Requirements	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for defining and adhering to the retention period of any critical asset as per established policies and procedures, as well as applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance obligations. Backup and recovery measures shall be incorporated as part of business continuity planning and tested accordingly for effectiveness.
0	The organization: a. Identifies, reports, and corrects information system flaws; b. Tests software and firmware updates related to flaw remediation for effectiveness and potential side effects before installation; c. Installs security-relevant software and firmware updates within [Assignment: organization- defined time period] of the release of the updates; and d. Incorporates flaw remediation into the organizational configuration management process. Supplemental Guidance:  Organizations identify information systems affected by announced software flaws including potential vulnerabilities resulting from those flaws, and report this information to designated organizational personnel with information security responsibilities. Security-relevant software updates include, for example, patches, service packs, hot fixes, and anti-virus signatures. Organizations also address flaws discovered during security assessments, continuous monitoring, incident response activities, and system error handling. Organizations take advantage of available resources such as the Common Weakness Enumeration (CWE) or Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVE) databases in remediating flaws discovered in organizational information systems. By incorporating flaw remediation into ongoing configuration management processes, required/anticipated remediation actions can be tracked and verified. Flaw remediation actions that can be tracked and verified include, for example, determining whether organizations follow US-CERT guidance and Information Assurance Vulnerability Alerts. Organization-defined time periods for updating security-relevant software and firmware may vary based on a variety of factors including, for example, the security category of the information system or the criticality of the update (i.e., severity of the vulnerability related to the discovered flaw). Some types of flaw remediation may require more testing than other types. Organizations determine the degree and type of testing needed for the specific type of flaw remediation activity under consideration and also the types of changes that are to be configuration-managed. In some situations, organizations may determine that the testing of software and/or firmware updates is not necessary or practical, for example, when implementing simple anti-virus signature updates. Organizations may also consider in testing decisions, whether security-relevant software or firmware updates are obtained from authorized sources with appropriate digital signatures. Related controls: CA-2, CA-7, CM-3, CM-5, CM-8, MA-2, IR-4, RA-5, SA-10, SA-11, SI-11.	Anti-malware awareness training, specific to mobile devices, shall be included in the provider's information security awareness training.
0	Maintain an up-to-date inventory of all of the organization’s network boundaries.	Maintain an up-to-date inventory of all of the organization’s network boundaries.
1	The allocation and use of privileges to information systems and services shall be restricted and controlled. Special attention shall be given to the allocation of privileged access rights, which allow users to override system controls.	Access to all hypervisor management functions or administrative consoles for systems hosting virtualized systems shall be restricted to personnel based upon the principle of least privilege and supported through technical controls (e.g., two-factor authentication, audit trails, IP address filtering, firewalls, and TLS encapsulated communications to the administrative consoles).
1	The organization employs [Selection: full-device encryption; container encryption] to protect the confidentiality and integrity of information on [Assignment: organization-defined mobile devices].	The mobile device policy shall require the use of encryption either for the entire device or for data identified as sensitive on all mobile devices, and shall be enforced through technology controls.
0	A formal policy shall be in place, and appropriate security measures shall be adopted to protect against the risks of using mobile computing and communication devices.	Audit plans shall be developed and maintained to address business process disruptions. Auditing plans shall focus on reviewing the effectiveness of the implementation of security operations. All audit activities must be agreed upon prior to executing any audits.
0	o Does the provider carry out penetration testing? How often? What are actually tested during the penetration test – for example, do they test the security isolation of each image to ensure it is not possible to ‘break out’ of one image into another and also gain access to the host infrastructure?. The tests should also check to see if it is possible to gain access, via the virtual image, to the cloud providers management and support systems (e.g, example the provisioning and admin access control systems).	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to protect wireless network environments, including the following:  • Perimeter firewalls implemented and configured to restrict unauthorized traffic  • Security settings enabled with strong encryption for authentication and transmission, replacing vendor default settings (e.g., encryption keys, passwords, and SNMP community strings)  • User access to wireless network devices restricted to authorized personnel  • The capability to detect the presence of unauthorized (rogue) wireless network devices for a timely disconnect from the network
1	• Can the provider confirm that the virtualised image does not contain the authentication credentials?	Baseline security requirements shall be established for developed or acquired, organizationally-owned or managed, physical or virtual, applications and infrastructure system and network components that comply with applicable legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations. Deviations from standard baseline configurations must be authorized following change management policies and procedures prior to deployment, provisioning, or use. Compliance with security baseline requirements must be reassessed at least annually unless an alternate frequency has been established and authorized based on business needs.
0	The organization manages information system identifiers by:  a. Receiving authorization from [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles] to assign an individual, group, role, or device identifier;  b. Selecting an identifier that identifies an individual, group, role, or device;  c. Assigning the identifier to the intended individual, group, role, or device;  d. Preventing reuse of identifiers for [Assignment: organization-defined time period]; and  e. Disabling the identifier after [Assignment: organization-defined time period of inactivity].	Ingress and egress points such as service areas and other points where unauthorized personnel may enter the premises shall be monitored, controlled and, if possible, isolated from data storage and processing facilities to prevent unauthorized data corruption, compromise, and loss.
1	Managers shall regularly review the compliance of information processing and procedures within their area of responsibility with the appropriate security policies, standards and any other security requirements.	The company shall have a documented application validation process to test for mobile device, operating system, and application compatibility issues.
0	Identity or name of affected data, system component, or resource.	The provider shall ensure the integrity of all virtual machine images at all times. Any changes made to virtual machine images must be logged and an alert raised regardless of their running state (e.g., dormant, off, or running). The results of a change or move of an image and the subsequent validation of the image's integrity must be immediately available to customers through electronic methods (e.g., portals or alerts).
0	When operating platforms are changed, business critical applications shall be reviewed and tested to ensure there is no adverse impact on organizational operations or security.	Provisioning user access (e.g., employees, contractors, customers (tenants), business partners, and/or supplier relationships) to data and organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) applications, infrastructure systems, and network components shall be authorized by the organization's management prior to access being granted and appropriately restricted as per established policies and procedures. Upon request, provider shall inform customer (tenant) of this user access, especially if customer (tenant) data is used as part the service and/or customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of control.
0	The organization:  a. Develops, documents, and disseminates to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]:    1. A media protection policy that addresses purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment, coordination among organizational entities, and compliance; and    2. Procedures to facilitate the implementation of the media protection policy and associated media protection controls; and  b. Reviews and updates the current:    1. Media protection policy [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and    2. Media protection procedures [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	Executive and line management shall take formal action to support information security through clearly-documented direction and commitment, and shall ensure the action has been assigned.
1	o What dependencies relevant to the restoration process exist? Include suppliers and outsource partners.	There shall be a defined and documented method for determining the impact of any disruption to the organization (cloud provider, cloud consumer) that must incorporate the following:  • Identify critical products and services  • Identify all dependencies, including processes, applications, business partners, and third party service providers  • Understand threats to critical products and services  • Determine impacts resulting from planned or unplanned disruptions and how these vary over time  • Establish the maximum tolerable period for disruption  • Establish priorities for recovery  • Establish recovery time objectives for resumption of critical products and services within their maximum tolerable period of disruption  • Estimate the resources required for resumption
0	• Is user directory data exportable in an interoperable format?	All mobile devices permitted for use through the company BYOD program or a company-assigned mobile device shall allow for remote wipe by the company's corporate IT or shall have all company-provided data wiped by the company's corporate IT.
1	Functionality testing to verify that the change does not adversely impact the security of the system.	External business partners shall adhere to the same policies and procedures for change management, release, and testing as internal developers within the organization (e.g., ITIL service management processes).
0	The organization establishes terms and conditions, consistent with any trust relationships established with other organizations owning, operating, and/or maintaining external information systems, allowing authorized individuals to:  a. Access the information system from external information systems; and  b. Process, store, or transmit organization-controlled information using external information systems.	Audit plans shall be developed and maintained to address business process disruptions. Auditing plans shall focus on reviewing the effectiveness of the implementation of security operations. All audit activities must be agreed upon prior to executing any audits.
1	An access control policy shall be established, documented and reviewed based on business and information security requirements.	Prior to granting customers access to data, assets, and information systems, identified security, contractual, and regulatory requirements for customer access shall be addressed.
0	Visitors are asked to surrender the badge or identification before leaving the facility or at the date of expiration.	Network environments and virtual instances shall be designed and configured to restrict and monitor traffic between trusted and untrusted connections. These configurations shall be reviewed at least annually, and supported by a documented justification for use for all allowed services, protocols, ports, and by compensating controls.
0	All information security responsibilities shall be defined and allocated.	Aligned with the enterprise-wide framework, formal risk assessments shall be performed at least annually or at planned intervals, (and in conjunction with any changes to information systems) to determine the likelihood and impact of all identified risks using qualitative and quantitative methods. The likelihood and impact associated with inherent and residual risk shall be determined independently, considering all risk categories (e.g., audit results, threat and vulnerability analysis, and regulatory compliance).
0	Manage all network devices using multi-factor authentication and encrypted sessions.	Production data shall not be replicated or used in non-production environments. Any use of customer data in non-production environments requires explicit, documented approval from all customers whose data is affected, and must comply with all legal and regulatory requirements for scrubbing of sensitive data elements.
0	Compare all network device configuration against approved security configurations defined for each network device in use and alert when any deviations are discovered.	Pursuant to local laws, regulations, ethics, and contractual constraints, all employment candidates, contractors, and third parties shall be subject to background verification proportional to the data classification to be accessed, the business requirements, and acceptable risk.
0	The organization [Selection: restricts; prohibits] the use of [Assignment: organization- defined types of information system media] on [Assignment: organization-defined information systems or system components] using [Assignment: organization-defined security safeguards].	Mobile devices connecting to corporate networks, or storing and accessing company information, shall allow for remote software version/patch validation. All mobile devices shall have the latest available security-related patches installed upon general release by the device manufacturer or carrier and authorized IT personnel shall be able to perform these updates remotely.
0	The information system generates audit records containing information that establishes what type of event occurred, when the event occurred, where the event occurred, the source of the event, the outcome of the event, and the identity of any individuals or subjects associated with the event.	The information system generates audit records containing information that establishes what type of event occurred, when the event occurred, where the event occurred, the source of the event, the outcome of the event, and the identity of any individuals or subjects associated with the event.
1	Cryptographic controls shall be used in compliance with all relevant agreements, legislation and regulations.	Organizations shall create and maintain a control framework which captures standards, regulatory, legal, and statutory requirements relevant for their business needs. The control framework shall be reviewed at least annually to ensure changes that could affect the business processes are reflected.
0	Ensure that each entity only runs processes that have access to that entity’s cardholder data environment.	Ensure that each entity only runs processes that have access to that entity’s cardholder data environment.
0	Equipment shall be sited and protected to reduce the risks from environmental threats and hazards, and opportunities for unauthorized access.	A documented list of approved application stores has been defined as acceptable for mobile devices accessing or storing provider managed data.
0	Employees and contractors using the organization's information systems and services shall be required to note and report any observed or suspected information security weaknesses in systems or services.	The company shall have a documented application validation process to test for mobile device, operating system, and application compatibility issues.
0	Records shall be protected from loss, destruction, falsification, unauthorized access and unauthorized release, in accordance with legislator^ regulatory, contractual and business requirements.	User access to diagnostic and configuration ports shall be restricted to authorized individuals and applications.
1	Never send unprotected PANs by end- user messaging technologies (for example, e- mail, instant messaging, SMS, chat, etc.).	External business partners shall adhere to the same policies and procedures for change management, release, and testing as internal developers within the organization (e.g., ITIL service management processes).
0	Deny communication over unauthorized TCP or UDP ports or application traffic to ensure that only authorized protocols are allowed to cross the network boundary in or out of the network at each of the organization’s network boundaries.	Deny communication over unauthorized TCP or UDP ports or application traffic to ensure that only authorized protocols are allowed to cross the network boundary in or out of the network at each of the organization’s network boundaries.
1	The organization permits authorized individuals to use an external information system to access the information system or to process, store, or transmit organization-controlled information only when the organization:  (a)   Verifies the implementation of required security controls on the external system as specified in the organization’s information security policy and security plan; or  (b)   Retains approved information system connection or processing agreements with the organizational entity hosting the external information system.	Changes to mobile device operating systems, patch levels, and/or applications shall be managed through the company's change management processes.
0	Information security events shall be reported through appropriate management channels as quickly as possible.	Audit plans shall be developed and maintained to address business process disruptions. Auditing plans shall focus on reviewing the effectiveness of the implementation of security operations. All audit activities must be agreed upon prior to executing any audits.
0	Always change vendor-supplied defaults and remove or disable unnecessary default accounts before installing a system on the network.	Risk assessments associated with data governance requirements shall be conducted at planned intervals and shall consider the following:  • Awareness of where sensitive data is stored and transmitted across applications, databases, servers, and network infrastructure  • Compliance with defined retention periods and end-of-life disposal requirements  • Data classification and protection from unauthorized use, access, loss, destruction, and falsification
1	Secure all individual non-console administrative access and all remote access to the CDE using multi-factor authentication.	Policies and procedures shall be established and maintained in support of data security to include (confidentiality, integrity, and availability) across multiple system interfaces, jurisdictions, and business functions to prevent improper disclosure, alteration, or destruction.
0	Maintain strict control over the internal or external distribution of any kind of media, including the following:	Production data shall not be replicated or used in non-production environments. Any use of customer data in non-production environments requires explicit, documented approval from all customers whose data is affected, and must comply with all legal and regulatory requirements for scrubbing of sensitive data elements.
1	The organization:  a. Develops, documents, and disseminates to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]:    1. A media protection policy that addresses purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment, coordination among organizational entities, and compliance; and    2. Procedures to facilitate the implementation of the media protection policy and associated media protection controls; and  b. Reviews and updates the current:    1. Media protection policy [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and    2. Media protection procedures [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	Information security policies and procedures shall be established and made readily available for review by all impacted personnel and external business relationships. Information security policies must be authorized by the organization's business leadership (or other accountable business role or function) and supported by a strategic business plan and an information security management program inclusive of defined information security roles and responsibilities for business leadership.
0	Information systems shall be regularly checked for compliance with security implementation standards.	Information systems shall be regularly checked for compliance with security implementation standards.
0	Generation of strong cryptographic keys	Organizations shall create and maintain a control framework which captures standards, regulatory, legal, and statutory requirements relevant for their business needs. The control framework shall be reviewed at least annually to ensure changes that could affect the business processes are reflected.
0	To monitor and audit PII protection controls and the effectiveness of internal PII protection policy.	All personnel shall be made aware of their roles and responsibilities for:  • Maintaining awareness and compliance with established policies and procedures and applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance obligations.  • Maintaining a safe and secure working environment
0	Ensure that all users with administrative account access use a dedicated or secondary account for elevated activities. This account should only be used for administrative activities and not internet browsing, email, or similar activities.	Policies and procedures shall be established and maintained in support of data security to include (confidentiality, integrity, and availability) across multiple system interfaces, jurisdictions, and business functions to prevent improper disclosure, alteration, or destruction.
1	The organization employs the principle of least privilege, allowing only authorized accesses for users (or processes acting on behalf of users) which are necessary to accomplish assigned tasks in accordance with organizational missions and business functions.	Access to all hypervisor management functions or administrative consoles for systems hosting virtualized systems shall be restricted to personnel based upon the principle of least privilege and supported through technical controls (e.g., two-factor authentication, audit trails, IP address filtering, firewalls, and TLS encapsulated communications to the administrative consoles).
0	Disable peer-to-peer (ad hoc) wireless network capabilities on wireless clients.	Policies and procedures shall be established for the labeling, handling, and security of data and objects which contain data. Mechanisms for label inheritance shall be implemented for objects that act as aggregate containers for data.
0	Ensure that all system components and software are protected from known vulnerabilities by installing applicable vendor- supplied security patches. Install critical security patches within one month of release.	A consistent unified framework for business continuity planning and plan development shall be established, documented, and adopted to ensure all business continuity plans are consistent in addressing priorities for testing, maintenance, and information security requirements.  Requirements for business continuity plans include the following:  • Defined purpose and scope, aligned with relevant dependencies  • Accessible to and understood by those who will use them  • Owned by a named person(s) who is responsible for their review, update, and approval  • Defined lines of communication, roles, and responsibilities  • Detailed recovery procedures, manual work-around, and reference information  • Method for plan invocation
1	Management shall actively support security within the organization through clear direction, demonstrated commitment, explicit assignment, and acknowledgment of information security responsibilities.	An Information Security Management Program (ISMP) shall be developed, documented, approved, and implemented that includes administrative, technical, and physical safeguards to protect assets and data from loss, misuse, unauthorized access, disclosure, alteration, and destruction. The security program shall include, but not be limited to, the following areas insofar as they relate to the characteristics of the business:  • Risk management  • Security policy  • Organization of information security  • Asset management  • Human resources security  • Physical and environmental security  • Communications and operations management  • Access control  • Information systems acquisition, development, and maintenance
0	The information system protects the [Selection (one or more): confidentiality; integrity] of transmitted information.	Data input and output integrity routines (i.e., reconciliation and edit checks) shall be implemented for application interfaces and databases to prevent manual or systematic processing errors, corruption of data, or misuse.
1	Information systems shall be regularly reviewed for compliance with the organization's information security policies and standards.	Risks shall be mitigated to an acceptable level. Acceptance levels based on risk criteria shall be established and documented in accordance with reasonable resolution time frames and stakeholder approval.
0	Maintain separate environments for production and non-production systems. Developers should not have unmonitored access to production environments.	Policies and procedures are established for permissible storage and access of identities used for authentication to ensure identities are only accessible based on rules of least privilege and replication limitation only to users explicitly defined as business necessary.
1	Configure monitoring systems to record network packets passing through the boundary at each of the organization’s network boundaries.	Network environments and virtual instances shall be designed and configured to restrict and monitor traffic between trusted and untrusted connections. These configurations shall be reviewed at least annually, and supported by a documented justification for use for all allowed services, protocols, ports, and by compensating controls.
1	When operating platforms are changed, business critical applications shall be reviewed and tested to ensure there is no adverse impact on organizational operations or security.	A centralized, mobile device management solution shall be deployed to all mobile devices permitted to store, transmit, or process customer data.
0	Deny communications with known malicious or unused Internet IP addresses and limit access only to trusted and necessary IP address ranges at each of the organization’s network boundaries.	All cloud-based services used by the company's mobile devices or BYOD shall be pre-approved for usage and the storage of company business data.
0	Ensure that all of the organization’s key systems are backed up as a complete system, through processes such as imaging, to enable the quick recovery of an entire system.	Policies and procedures shall be implemented to ensure the consistent review of service agreements (e.g., SLAs) between providers and customers (tenants) across the relevant supply chain (upstream/downstream). Reviews shall be performed at least annually and identify any non-conformance to established agreements. The reviews should result in actions to address service-level conflicts or inconsistencies resulting from disparate supplier relationships.
0	The organization:  a. Develops, documents, and disseminates to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]:    1. A personnel security policy that addresses purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment, coordination among organizational entities, and compliance; and    2. Procedures to facilitate the implementation of the personnel security policy and associated personnel security controls; and  b. Reviews and updates the current:    1. Personnel security policy [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and    2. Personnel security procedures [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	Changes to mobile device operating systems, patch levels, and/or applications shall be managed through the company's change management processes.
1	Managers shall regularly review the compliance of information processing and procedures within their area of responsibility with the appropriate security policies, standards and any other security requirements.	Changes to mobile device operating systems, patch levels, and/or applications shall be managed through the company's change management processes.
0	The organization:  a. Enforces physical access authorizations at [Assignment: organization-defined entry/exit points to the facility where the information system resides] by;    1. Verifying individual access authorizations before granting access to the facility; and    2. Controlling ingress/egress to the facility using [Selection (one or more): [Assignment: organization-defined physical access control systems/devices]; guards];  b. Maintains physical access audit logs for [Assignment: organization-defined entry/exit points];  c. Provides [Assignment: organization-defined security safeguards] to control access to areas within the facility officially designated as publicly accessible;  d. Escorts visitors and monitors visitor activity [Assignment: organization-defined circumstances requiring visitor escorts and monitoring];  e. Secures keys, combinations, and other physical access devices;  f. Inventories [Assignment: organization-defined physical access devices] every [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and  g. Changes combinations and keys [Assignment: organization-defined frequency] and/or when keys are lost, combinations are compromised, or individuals are transferred or terminated.	All mobile devices permitted for use through the company BYOD program or a company-assigned mobile device shall allow for remote wipe by the company's corporate IT or shall have all company-provided data wiped by the company's corporate IT.
0	Incorporate multi-factor authentication for all remote network access (both user and administrator, and including third-party access for support or maintenance) originating from outside the entity’s network.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes implemented, for maintaining a safe and secure working environment in offices, rooms, facilities, and secure areas storing sensitive information.
0	Ensure that security policies and operational procedures for identification and authentication are documented, in use, and known to all affected parties.	Roles and responsibilities of contractors, employees, and third-party users shall be documented as they relate to information assets and security.
0	Implement physical and/or logical controls to restrict access to publicly accessible network jacks.	Multi-tenant organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) applications, and infrastructure system and network components, shall be designed, developed, deployed, and configured such that provider and customer (tenant) user access is appropriately segmented from other tenant users, based on the following considerations:  • Established policies and procedures  • Isolation of business critical assets and/or sensitive user data, and sessions that mandate stronger internal controls and high levels of assurance  • Compliance with legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations
0	The information system, for hardware token-based authentication, employs mechanisms that satisfy [Assignment: organization-defined token quality requirements].	The provider shall use secure (e.g., non-clear text and authenticated) standardized network protocols for the import and export of data and to manage the service, and shall make available a document to consumers (tenants) detailing the relevant interoperability and portability standards that are involved.
0	The information system implements mechanisms for authentication to a cryptographic module that meet the requirements of applicable federal laws, Executive Orders, directives, policies, regulations, standards, and guidance for such authentication.	The information system implements mechanisms for authentication to a cryptographic module that meet the requirements of applicable federal laws, Executive Orders, directives, policies, regulations, standards, and guidance for such authentication.
0	o Does the provider have a formal process in place for detecting, identifying, analyzing and responding to incidents?	The provider shall ensure the integrity of all virtual machine images at all times. Any changes made to virtual machine images must be logged and an alert raised regardless of their running state (e.g., dormant, off, or running). The results of a change or move of an image and the subsequent validation of the image's integrity must be immediately available to customers through electronic methods (e.g., portals or alerts).
0	Current network diagram that identifies all connections between the cardholder data environment and other networks, including any wireless networks	Timely de-provisioning (revocation or modification) of user access to data and organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) applications, infrastructure systems, and network components, shall be implemented as per established policies and procedures and based on user's change in status (e.g., termination of employment or other business relationship, job change, or transfer). Upon request, provider shall inform customer (tenant) of these changes, especially if customer (tenant) data is used as part the service and/or customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of control.
0	What measures are taken to ensure third party service levels are met and maintained?	Proper forensic procedures, including chain of custody, are required for the presentation of evidence to support potential legal action subject to the relevant jurisdiction after an information security incident. Upon notification, customers and/or other external business partners impacted by a security breach shall be given the opportunity to participate as is legally permissible in the forensic investigation.
0	Keep cardholder data storage to a minimum by implementing data retention and disposal policies, procedures and processes that include at least the following for all cardholder data (CHD) storage:  Limiting data storage amount and retention time to that which is required for legal, regulatory, and/or business requirements  Specific retention requirements for cardholder data  Processes for secure deletion of data when no longer needed  A quarterly process for identifying and securely deleting stored cardholder data that exceeds defined retention.PCI DSS Requirements	An inventory of all mobile devices used to store and access company data shall be kept and maintained. All changes to the status of these devices (i.e., operating system and patch levels, lost or decommissioned status, and to whom the device is assigned or approved for usage (BYOD)) will be included for each device in the inventory.
1	Managers shall regularly review the compliance of information processing and procedures within their area of responsibility with the appropriate security policies, standards and any other security requirements.	Mobile devices connecting to corporate networks, or storing and accessing company information, shall allow for remote software version/patch validation. All mobile devices shall have the latest available security-related patches installed upon general release by the device manufacturer or carrier and authorized IT personnel shall be able to perform these updates remotely.
1	Physically or logically segregated systems should be used to isolate and run software that is required for business operations but incur higher risk for the organization.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to inventory, document, and maintain data flows for data that is resident (permanently or temporarily) within the service's geographically distributed (physical and virtual) applications and infrastructure network and systems components and/or shared with other third parties to ascertain any regulatory, statutory, or supply chain agreement (SLA) compliance impact, and to address any other business risks associated with the data. Upon request, provider shall inform customer (tenant) of compliance impact and risk, especially if customer data is used as part of the services.
0	Ensure that all system components and software are protected from known vulnerabilities by installing applicable vendor- supplied security patches. Install critical security patches within one month of release.	The mobile device policy shall require the BYOD user to perform backups of data, prohibit the usage of unapproved application stores, and require the use of anti-malware software (where supported).
1	Use vulnerability scanning and penetration testing tools in concert. The results of vulnerability scanning assessments should be used as a starting point to guide and focus penetration testing efforts.	Implementers shall ensure that the security vulnerability assessment tools or services accommodate the virtualization technologies used (e.g., virtualization aware).
1	A policy on the use of cryptographic controls for protection of information shall be developed and implemented.	Policies and procedures shall be established and maintained in support of data security to include (confidentiality, integrity, and availability) across multiple system interfaces, jurisdictions, and business functions to prevent improper disclosure, alteration, or destruction.
0	The organization:  a. Establishes usage restrictions and implementation guidance for Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) technologies based on the potential to cause damage to the information system if used maliciously; and  b. Authorizes, monitors, and controls the use of VoIP within the information system.	The organization:  a. Establishes usage restrictions and implementation guidance for Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) technologies based on the potential to cause damage to the information system if used maliciously; and  b. Authorizes, monitors, and controls the use of VoIP within the information system.
1	All relevant legislative statutory, regulatory, contractual requirements and the organization's approach to meet these requirements shall be explicitly identified, documented and kept up to date for each information system and the organization.	Aligned with the enterprise-wide framework, formal risk assessments shall be performed at least annually or at planned intervals, (and in conjunction with any changes to information systems) to determine the likelihood and impact of all identified risks using qualitative and quantitative methods. The likelihood and impact associated with inherent and residual risk shall be determined independently, considering all risk categories (e.g., audit results, threat and vulnerability analysis, and regulatory compliance).
0	o Does the provider offer the customer (upon request) a forensic image of the virtual machine?	Applications and programming interfaces (APIs) shall be designed, developed, deployed, and tested in accordance with leading industry standards (e.g., OWASP for web applications) and adhere to applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance obligations.
0	Deploy anti-virus software on all systems commonly affected by malicious software (particularly personal computers and servers).	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to inventory, document, and maintain data flows for data that is resident (permanently or temporarily) within the service's geographically distributed (physical and virtual) applications and infrastructure network and systems components and/or shared with other third parties to ascertain any regulatory, statutory, or supply chain agreement (SLA) compliance impact, and to address any other business risks associated with the data. Upon request, provider shall inform customer (tenant) of compliance impact and risk, especially if customer data is used as part of the services.
0	• Is the hardened virtual image protected from unauthorized access?	Network architecture diagrams shall clearly identify high-risk environments and data flows that may have legal compliance impacts. Technical measures shall be implemented and shall apply defense-in-depth techniques (e.g., deep packet analysis, traffic throttling, and black-holing) for detection and timely response to network-based attacks associated with anomalous ingress or egress traffic patterns (e.g., MAC spoofing and ARP poisoning attacks) and/or distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) attacks.
1	Protect devices that capture payment card data via direct physical interaction with the card from tampering and substitution.	To reduce the risks from environmental threats, hazards, and opportunities for unauthorized access, equipment shall be kept away from locations subject to high probability environmental risks and supplemented by redundant equipment located at a reasonable distance.
1	• How are the most critical decisions (e.g., simultaneous de-provisioning of large resource blocks) authorised (single or dual, and by which roles within the organisation)?	User access policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for ensuring appropriate identity, entitlement, and access management for all internal corporate and customer (tenant) users with access to data and organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) application interfaces and infrastructure network and systems components. These policies, procedures, processes, and measures must incorporate the following:  • Procedures, supporting roles, and responsibilities for provisioning and de-provisioning user account entitlements following the rule of least privilege based on job function (e.g., internal employee and contingent staff personnel changes, customer-controlled access, suppliers' business relationships, or other third-party business relationships)  • Business case considerations for higher levels of assurance and multi-factor authentication secrets (e.g., management interfaces, key generation, remote access, segregation of duties, emergency access, large-scale provisioning or geographically-distributed deployments, and personnel redundancy for critical systems)  • Access segmentation to sessions and data in multi-tenant architectures by any third party (e.g., provider and/or other customer (tenant))  • Identity trust verification and service-to-service application (API) and information processing interoperability (e.g., SSO and federation)  • Account credential lifecycle management from instantiation through revocation  • Account credential and/or identity store minimization or re-use when feasible  • Authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules for access to data and sessions (e.g., encryption and strong/multi-factor, expireable, non-shared authentication secrets)  • Permissions and supporting capabilities for customer (tenant) controls over authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules for access to data and sessions  • Adherence to applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance requirements
1	o Does the provider have a formal process in place for detecting, identifying, analyzing and responding to incidents?	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to triage security-related events and ensure timely and thorough incident management, as per established IT service management policies and procedures.
1	Install personal firewall software or equivalent functionality on any portable computing devices (including company and/or employee-owned) that connect to the Internet when outside the network (for example, laptops used by employees), and which are also used to access the CDE. Firewall (or equivalent) configurations include:  Specific configuration settings are defined.  Personal firewall (or equivalent functionality) is actively running.  Personal firewall (or equivalent functionality) is not alterable by users of the portable computing devices.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to prevent the execution of malware on organizationally-owned or managed user end-point devices (i.e., issued workstations, laptops, and mobile devices) and IT infrastructure network and systems components.
0	The organization provides a short-term uninterruptible power supply to facilitate [Selection (one or more): an orderly shutdown of the information system; transition of the information system to long-term alternate power] in the event of a primary power source loss.	Requirements for non-disclosure or confidentiality agreements reflecting the organization's needs for the protection of data and operational details shall be identified, documented, and reviewed at planned intervals.
1	Requirements for confidentiality or non-disclosure agreements reflecting the organization's needs for the protection of information shall be identified, regularly reviewed and documented.	Requirements for non-disclosure or confidentiality agreements reflecting the organization's needs for the protection of data and operational details shall be identified, documented, and reviewed at planned intervals.
1	Changes to the organization, business processes, information processing facilities and systems that affect information security shall be controlled.	Risk assessment results shall include updates to security policies, procedures, standards, and controls to ensure that they remain relevant and effective.
0	The information security related requirements shall be included in the requirements for new information systems or enhancements to existing information systems.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to manage business risks associated with permitting mobile device access to corporate resources and may require the implementation of higher assurance compensating controls and acceptable-use policies and procedures (e.g., mandated security training, stronger identity, entitlement and access controls, and device monitoring).
0	The organization:  a. Conducts an assessment of risk, including the likelihood and magnitude of harm, from the unauthorized access, use, disclosure, disruption, modification, or destruction of the information system and the information it processes, stores, or transmits;  b. Documents risk assessment results in [Selection: security plan; risk assessment report; [Assignment: organization-defined document]];  c. Reviews risk assessment results [Assignment: organization-defined frequency];  d. Disseminates risk assessment results to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]; and  e. Updates the risk assessment [Assignment: organization-defined frequency] or whenever there are significant changes to the information system or environment of operation (including the identification of new threats and vulnerabilities), or other conditions that may impact the security state of the system.	An inventory of all mobile devices used to store and access company data shall be kept and maintained. All changes to the status of these devices (i.e., operating system and patch levels, lost or decommissioned status, and to whom the device is assigned or approved for usage (BYOD)) will be included for each device in the inventory.
1	Perform quarterly internal vulnerability scans. Address vulnerabilities and perform rescans to verify all “high risk” vulnerabilities are resolved in accordance with the entity’s vulnerability ranking (per Requirement 6.1). Scans must be performed by qualified personnel.	Independent reviews and assessments shall be performed at least annually to ensure that the organization addresses nonconformities of established policies, standards, procedures, and compliance obligations.
1	Networks shall be managed and controlled to protect information in systems and applications.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to protect wireless network environments, including the following:  • Perimeter firewalls implemented and configured to restrict unauthorized traffic  • Security settings enabled with strong encryption for authentication and transmission, replacing vendor default settings (e.g., encryption keys, passwords, and SNMP community strings)  • User access to wireless network devices restricted to authorized personnel  • The capability to detect the presence of unauthorized (rogue) wireless network devices for a timely disconnect from the network
1	Ensure that security policies and operational procedures for restricting access to cardholder data are documented, in use, and known to all affected parties.	Policies and procedures shall be established and maintained in support of data security to include (confidentiality, integrity, and availability) across multiple system interfaces, jurisdictions, and business functions to prevent improper disclosure, alteration, or destruction.
0	The information system uniquely identifies and authenticates organizational users (or processes acting on behalf of organizational users).	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for defining and adhering to the retention period of any critical asset as per established policies and procedures, as well as applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance obligations. Backup and recovery measures shall be incorporated as part of business continuity planning and tested accordingly for effectiveness.
0	All relevant legislative statutory, regulatory, contractual requirements and the organization's approach to meet these requirements shall be explicitly identified, documented and kept up to date for each information system and the organization.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to prevent the execution of malware on organizationally-owned or managed user end-point devices (i.e., issued workstations, laptops, and mobile devices) and IT infrastructure network and systems components.
0	User identification	Providers shall inspect, account for, and work with their cloud supply-chain partners to correct data quality errors and associated risks. Providers shall design and implement controls to mitigate and contain data security risks through proper separation of duties, role-based access, and least-privilege access for all personnel within their supply chain.
1	When operating platforms are changed, business critical applications shall be reviewed and tested to ensure there is no adverse impact on organizational operations or security.	BYOD and/or company-owned devices are configured to require an automatic lockout screen, and the requirement shall be enforced through technical controls.
0	The information system maintains a separate execution domain for each executing process.	Providers shall review the risk management and governance processes of their partners so that practices are consistent and aligned to account for risks inherited from other members of that partner's cloud supply chain.
0	Procedures for monitoring use of information processing systems and facilities shall be established to check for use and effectiveness of implemented controls. The results of the monitoring activities shall be reviewed regularly.	A consistent unified framework for business continuity planning and plan development shall be established, documented, and adopted to ensure all business continuity plans are consistent in addressing priorities for testing, maintenance, and information security requirements.  Requirements for business continuity plans include the following:  • Defined purpose and scope, aligned with relevant dependencies  • Accessible to and understood by those who will use them  • Owned by a named person(s) who is responsible for their review, update, and approval  • Defined lines of communication, roles, and responsibilities  • Detailed recovery procedures, manual work-around, and reference information  • Method for plan invocation
1	Records shall be protected from loss, destruction, falsification, unauthorized access and unauthorized release, in accordance with legislator^ regulatory, contractual and business requirements.	Proper forensic procedures, including chain of custody, are required for the presentation of evidence to support potential legal action subject to the relevant jurisdiction after an information security incident. Upon notification, customers and/or other external business partners impacted by a security breach shall be given the opportunity to participate as is legally permissible in the forensic investigation.
0	Perform automated port scans on a regular basis against all systems and alert if unauthorized ports are detected on a system.	Providers shall review the risk management and governance processes of their partners so that practices are consistent and aligned to account for risks inherited from other members of that partner's cloud supply chain.
1	Automatically lock workstation sessions after a standard period of inactivity.	BYOD and/or company-owned devices are configured to require an automatic lockout screen, and the requirement shall be enforced through technical controls.
0	Establish, publish, maintain, and disseminate a security policy.	The mobile device policy shall require the use of encryption either for the entire device or for data identified as sensitive on all mobile devices, and shall be enforced through technology controls.
1	Information systems shall be regularly reviewed for compliance with the organization's information security policies and standards.	The provider shall have a documented mobile device policy that includes a documented definition for mobile devices and the acceptable usage and requirements for all mobile devices. The provider shall post and communicate the policy and requirements through the company's security awareness and training program.
0	The organization:  a. Develops, documents, and disseminates to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]:    1. A security awareness and training policy that addresses purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment, coordination among organizational entities, and compliance; and    2.  Procedures to facilitate the implementation of the security awareness and training policy and associated security awareness and training controls; and  b. Reviews and updates the current:    1. Security awareness and training policy [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and    2.  Security awareness and training procedures [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	All structured and unstructured data shall be available to the customer and provided to them upon request in an industry-standard format (e.g., .doc, .xls, .pdf, logs, and flat files).
0	The organization requires the developer of the information system, system component, or information system service to provide design and implementation information for the security controls to be employed that includes: [Selection (one or more): security-relevant external system interfaces; high-level design; low-level design; source code or hardware schematics; [Assignment: organization-defined design/implementation information]] at [Assignment: organization-defined level of detail].	The organization requires the developer of the information system, system component, or information system service to provide design and implementation information for the security controls to be employed that includes: [Selection (one or more): security-relevant external system interfaces; high-level design; low-level design; source code or hardware schematics; [Assignment: organization-defined design/implementation information]] at [Assignment: organization-defined level of detail].
0	Use appropriate facility entry controls to limit and monitor physical access to systems in the cardholder data environment.	Production data shall not be replicated or used in non-production environments. Any use of customer data in non-production environments requires explicit, documented approval from all customers whose data is affected, and must comply with all legal and regulatory requirements for scrubbing of sensitive data elements.
1	The organization:  a. Maintains temperature and humidity levels within the facility where the information system resides at [Assignment: organization-defined acceptable levels]; and  b. Monitors temperature and humidity levels [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	Protection measures shall be put into place to react to natural and man-made threats based upon a geographically-specific business impact assessment.
0	Use appropriate facility entry controls to limit and monitor physical access to systems in the cardholder data environment.	Access to, and use of, audit tools that interact with the organization's information systems shall be appropriately segregated and access restricted to prevent inappropriate disclosure and tampering of log data.
0	Privacy and protection of personally identifiable information shall be ensured as required in relevant legislation and regulation where applicable.	Risk assessment results shall include updates to security policies, procedures, standards, and controls to ensure that they remain relevant and effective.
1	The organization:  a. Establishes an alternate storage site including necessary agreements to permit the storage and retrieval of information system backup information; and  b. Ensures that the alternate storage site provides information security safeguards equivalent to that of the primary site.	To reduce the risks from environmental threats, hazards, and opportunities for unauthorized access, equipment shall be kept away from locations subject to high probability environmental risks and supplemented by redundant equipment located at a reasonable distance.
0	The organization:  a. Develops, approves, and maintains a list of individuals with authorized access to the facility where the information system resides;  b. Issues authorization credentials for facility access;  c. Reviews the access list detailing authorized facility access by individuals [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and  d. Removes individuals from the facility access list when access is no longer required.	Providers shall assure reasonable information security across their information supply chain by performing an annual review. The review shall include all partners/third party-providers upon which their information supply chain depends on.
0	Test data shall be selected carefully, protected and controlled.	Policies and procedures shall be established for the secure disposal of equipment (by asset type) used outside the organization's premises. This shall include a wiping solution or destruction process that renders recovery of information impossible. The erasure shall consist of a full overwrite of the drive to ensure that the erased drive is released to inventory for reuse and deployment, or securely stored until it can be destroyed.
0	Assign access based on individual personnel’s job classification and function.	Data center utilities services and environmental conditions (e.g., water, power, temperature and humidity controls, telecommunications, and internet connectivity) shall be secured, monitored, maintained, and tested for continual effectiveness at planned intervals to ensure protection from unauthorized interception or damage, and designed with automated fail-over or other redundancies in the event of planned or unplanned disruptions.
0	Agreements shall be established and implemented for the exchange of information and software between the organization and external parties.	Platform and data-appropriate encryption (e.g., AES-256) in open/validated formats and standard algorithms shall be required. Keys shall not be stored in the cloud (i.e., at the cloud provider in question), but maintained by the cloud consumer or trusted key management provider. Key management and key usage shall be separated duties.
1	Physically secure all media.	Ingress and egress points such as service areas and other points where unauthorized personnel may enter the premises shall be monitored, controlled and, if possible, isolated from data storage and processing facilities to prevent unauthorized data corruption, compromise, and loss.
0	All relevant legislative statutory, regulatory, contractual requirements and the organization's approach to meet these requirements shall be explicitly identified, documented and kept up to date for each information system and the organization.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to manage business risks associated with permitting mobile device access to corporate resources and may require the implementation of higher assurance compensating controls and acceptable-use policies and procedures (e.g., mandated security training, stronger identity, entitlement and access controls, and device monitoring).
0	The organization:  a. Determines the types of changes to the information system that are configuration-controlled;  b. Reviews proposed configuration-controlled changes to the information system and approves or disapproves such changes with explicit consideration for security impact analyses;  c. Documents configuration change decisions associated with the information system;  d. Implements approved configuration-controlled changes to the information system;  e. Retains records of configuration-controlled changes to the information system for [Assignment: organization-defined time period];  f. Audits and reviews activities associated with configuration-controlled changes to the information system; and  g. Coordinates and provides oversight for configuration change control activities through [Assignment: organization-defined configuration change control element (e.g., committee, board] that convenes [Selection (one or more): [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; [Assignment: organization-defined configuration change conditions]].	The company shall have a documented policy prohibiting the installation of non-approved applications or approved applications not obtained through a pre-identified application store.
0	The information system implements multifactor authentication for local access to privileged accounts.	The provider shall use open and published APIs to ensure support for interoperability between components and to facilitate migrating applications.
0	The organization:  a. Develops an incident response plan that:    1. Provides the organization with a roadmap for implementing its incident response capability;    2. Describes the structure and organization of the incident response capability;    3. Provides a high-level approach for how the incident response capability fits into the overall organization;    4. Meets the unique requirements of the organization, which relate to mission, size, structure, and functions;    5. Defines reportable incidents;    6. Provides metrics for measuring the incident response capability within the organization;    7. Defines the resources and management support needed to effectively maintain and mature an incident response capability; and    8. Is reviewed and approved by [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles];  b. Distributes copies of the incident response plan to [Assignment: organization-defined incident response personnel (identified by name and/or by role) and organizational elements];  c. Reviews the incident response plan [Assignment: organization-defined frequency];  d. Updates the incident response plan to address system/organizational changes or problems encountered during plan implementation, execution, or testing;   e. Communicates incident response plan changes to [Assignment: organization-defined incident response personnel (identified by name and/or by role) and organizational elements]; and f. Protects the incident response plan from unauthorized disclosure and modification.	Implementers shall ensure that the security vulnerability assessment tools or services accommodate the virtualization technologies used (e.g., virtualization aware).
0	The organization:  a. Develops, documents, and disseminates to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]:    1. An identification and authentication policy that addresses purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment, coordination among organizational entities, and compliance; and    2. Procedures to facilitate the implementation of the identification and authentication policy and associated identification and authentication controls; and  b. Reviews and updates the current:    1. Identification and authentication policy [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and    2. Identification and authentication procedures [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	The BYOD policy shall define the device and eligibility requirements to allow for BYOD usage.
0	The organization:  a. Develops, documents, and disseminates to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]:    1. A system maintenance policy that addresses purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment, coordination among organizational entities, and compliance; and    2. Procedures to facilitate the implementation of the system maintenance policy and associated system maintenance controls; and  b. Reviews and updates the current:    1. System maintenance policy [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and    2. System maintenance procedures [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	All data shall be designated with stewardship, with assigned responsibilities defined, documented, and communicated.
0	Information involved in application services passing over public networks shall be protected from fraudulent activity, contract dispute and unauthorized disclosure and modification.	User access policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for ensuring appropriate identity, entitlement, and access management for all internal corporate and customer (tenant) users with access to data and organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) application interfaces and infrastructure network and systems components. These policies, procedures, processes, and measures must incorporate the following:  • Procedures, supporting roles, and responsibilities for provisioning and de-provisioning user account entitlements following the rule of least privilege based on job function (e.g., internal employee and contingent staff personnel changes, customer-controlled access, suppliers' business relationships, or other third-party business relationships)  • Business case considerations for higher levels of assurance and multi-factor authentication secrets (e.g., management interfaces, key generation, remote access, segregation of duties, emergency access, large-scale provisioning or geographically-distributed deployments, and personnel redundancy for critical systems)  • Access segmentation to sessions and data in multi-tenant architectures by any third party (e.g., provider and/or other customer (tenant))  • Identity trust verification and service-to-service application (API) and information processing interoperability (e.g., SSO and federation)  • Account credential lifecycle management from instantiation through revocation  • Account credential and/or identity store minimization or re-use when feasible  • Authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules for access to data and sessions (e.g., encryption and strong/multi-factor, expireable, non-shared authentication secrets)  • Permissions and supporting capabilities for customer (tenant) controls over authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules for access to data and sessions  • Adherence to applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance requirements
0	Use a wireless intrusion detection system (WIDS) to detect and alert on unauthorized wireless access points connected to the network.	Higher levels of assurance are required for protection, retention, and lifecycle management of audit logs, adhering to applicable legal, statutory or regulatory compliance obligations and providing unique user access accountability to detect potentially suspicious network behaviors and/or file integrity anomalies, and to support forensic investigative capabilities in the event of a security breach.
1	All information security responsibilities shall be defined and allocated.	Roles and responsibilities of contractors, employees, and third-party users shall be documented as they relate to information assets and security.
1	• Can the provider detail what information is recorded within audit logs? o For what period is this data retained? o Is it possible to segment data within audit logs so they can be made available to the end customer and/or law enforcement without compromising other customers and still be admissible in court? o What controls are employed to protect logs from unauthorised access or tampering? o What method is used to check and protect the integrity of audit logs? 	Higher levels of assurance are required for protection, retention, and lifecycle management of audit logs, adhering to applicable legal, statutory or regulatory compliance obligations and providing unique user access accountability to detect potentially suspicious network behaviors and/or file integrity anomalies, and to support forensic investigative capabilities in the event of a security breach.
1	Passwords shall be controlled through a formal management process.	Password policies, applicable to mobile devices, shall be documented and enforced through technical controls on all company devices or devices approved for BYOD usage, and shall prohibit the changing of password/PIN lengths and authentication requirements.
1	The organization establishes and manages cryptographic keys for required cryptography employed within the information system in accordance with [Assignment: organization-defined requirements for key generation, distribution, storage, access, and destruction].	Keys must have identifiable owners (binding keys to identities) and there shall be key management policies.
0	The organization employs a wireless intrusion detection system to identify rogue wireless devices and to detect attack attempts and potential compromises/breaches to the information system.	The organization employs a wireless intrusion detection system to identify rogue wireless devices and to detect attack attempts and potential compromises/breaches to the information system.
0	Logical and physical access to information and application systems and functions by users and support personnel shall be restricted in accordance with the defined access control policy.	Roles and responsibilities for performing employment termination or change in employment procedures shall be assigned, documented, and communicated.
1	Enable anti-exploitation features such as Data Execution Prevention (DEP) or Address Space Layout Randomization (ASLR) that are available in an operating system or deploy appropriate toolkits that can be configured to apply protection to a broader set of applications and executables.	The mobile device policy shall require the BYOD user to perform backups of data, prohibit the usage of unapproved application stores, and require the use of anti-malware software (where supported).
1	Deploy a change-detection mechanism (for example, file-integrity monitoring tools) to alert personnel to unauthorized modification (including changes, additions, and deletions) of critical system files, configuration files, or content files; and configure the software to perform critical file comparisons at least weekly.	External business partners shall adhere to the same policies and procedures for change management, release, and testing as internal developers within the organization (e.g., ITIL service management processes).
0	The information system:  (a)   Compares the internal information system clocks [Assignment: organization-defined frequency] with [Assignment: organization-defined authoritative time source]; and  (b)   Synchronizes the internal system clocks to the authoritative time source when the time difference is greater than [Assignment: organization-defined time period].	The information system:  (a)   Compares the internal information system clocks [Assignment: organization-defined frequency] with [Assignment: organization-defined authoritative time source]; and  (b)   Synchronizes the internal system clocks to the authoritative time source when the time difference is greater than [Assignment: organization-defined time period].
0	Detection, prevention and recovery controls to protect against malware shall be implemented, combined with appropriate user awareness.	All cloud-based services used by the company's mobile devices or BYOD shall be pre-approved for usage and the storage of company business data.
1	The organization:  a. Reviews and analyzes information system audit records [Assignment: organization-defined frequency] for indications of [Assignment: organization-defined inappropriate or unusual activity]; and  b. Reports findings to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles].	The identification, assessment, and prioritization of risks posed by business processes requiring third-party access to the organization's information systems and data shall be followed by coordinated application of resources to minimize, monitor, and measure likelihood and impact of unauthorized or inappropriate access. Compensating controls derived from the risk analysis shall be implemented prior to provisioning access.
0	Visitors are identified and given a badge or other identification that expires and that visibly distinguishes the visitors from onsite personnel.	Information security policies and procedures shall be established and made readily available for review by all impacted personnel and external business relationships. Information security policies must be authorized by the organization's business leadership (or other accountable business role or function) and supported by a strategic business plan and an information security management program inclusive of defined information security roles and responsibilities for business leadership.
0	Information security events shall be reported through appropriate communications channels as quickly as possible. All employees, contractors and third-party users shall be made aware of their responsibility to report any information security events as quickly as possible.	Requirements for non-disclosure or confidentiality agreements reflecting the organization's needs for the protection of data and operational details shall be identified, documented, and reviewed at planned intervals.
0	Review and test the plan, including all elements listed in Requirement 12.10.1, at least annually.	The company shall have a documented policy prohibiting the installation of non-approved applications or approved applications not obtained through a pre-identified application store.
0	The organization's approach to managing information security and its implementation (i.e. control objectives, controls, policies, processes and procedures for information security) shall be reviewed independently at planned intervals or when significant changes occur.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to prevent the execution of unauthorized mobile code, defined as software transferred between systems over a trusted or untrusted network and executed on a local system without explicit installation or execution by the recipient, on organizationally-owned or managed user end-point devices (e.g., issued workstations, laptops, and mobile devices) and IT infrastructure network and systems components.
1	Physically secure all media.	Physical access to information assets and functions by users and support personnel shall be restricted.
1	Enforce detailed audit logging for access to sensitive data or changes to sensitive data (utilizing tools such as File Integrity Monitoring or Security Information and Event Monitoring).	Higher levels of assurance are required for protection, retention, and lifecycle management of audit logs, adhering to applicable legal, statutory or regulatory compliance obligations and providing unique user access accountability to detect potentially suspicious network behaviors and/or file integrity anomalies, and to support forensic investigative capabilities in the event of a security breach.
1	Encrypt all non-console administrative access using strong cryptography.	Multi-tenant organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) applications, and infrastructure system and network components, shall be designed, developed, deployed, and configured such that provider and customer (tenant) user access is appropriately segmented from other tenant users, based on the following considerations:  • Established policies and procedures  • Isolation of business critical assets and/or sensitive user data, and sessions that mandate stronger internal controls and high levels of assurance  • Compliance with legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations
0	There shall be procedures in place to control the installation of software on operational systems.	Roles and responsibilities for performing employment termination or change in employment procedures shall be assigned, documented, and communicated.
0	Privacy and protection of personally identifiable information shall be ensured as required in relevant legislation and regulation where applicable.	Providers shall assure reasonable information security across their information supply chain by performing an annual review. The review shall include all partners/third party-providers upon which their information supply chain depends on.
1	Ensure that all anti-virus mechanisms are maintained as follows:  Are kept current,  Perform periodic scans  Generate audit logs which are retained per PCI DSS Requirement 10.7.PCI DSS Requirements	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to restrict the installation of unauthorized software on organizationally-owned or managed user end-point devices (e.g., issued workstations, laptops, and mobile devices) and IT infrastructure network and systems components.
1	Regularly compare the results from backto-back vulnerability scans to verify that vulnerabilities have been remediated in a timely manner.	Implementers shall ensure that the security vulnerability assessment tools or services accommodate the virtualization technologies used (e.g., virtualization aware).
0	Information systems shall be regularly reviewed for compliance with the organization's information security policies and standards.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for defining and adhering to the retention period of any critical asset as per established policies and procedures, as well as applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance obligations. Backup and recovery measures shall be incorporated as part of business continuity planning and tested accordingly for effectiveness.
0	The information system:  a. Generates error messages that provide information necessary for corrective actions without revealing information that could be exploited by adversaries; and  b. Reveals error messages only to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles].	The information system:  a. Generates error messages that provide information necessary for corrective actions without revealing information that could be exploited by adversaries; and  b. Reveals error messages only to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles].
0	The information system automatically disables inactive accounts after [Assignment: organization-defined time period]. 	All data shall be designated with stewardship, with assigned responsibilities defined, documented, and communicated.
0	The information system protects wireless access to the system using authentication of [Selection (one or more): users; devices] and encryption.	Roles and responsibilities of contractors, employees, and third-party users shall be documented as they relate to information assets and security.
0	The information system, in conjunction with a remote device, prevents the device from simultaneously establishing non-remote connections with the system and communicating via some other connection to resources in external networks.	The information system, in conjunction with a remote device, prevents the device from simultaneously establishing non-remote connections with the system and communicating via some other connection to resources in external networks.
0	Enforce detailed audit logging for access to sensitive data or changes to sensitive data (utilizing tools such as File Integrity Monitoring or Security Information and Event Monitoring).	A consistent unified framework for business continuity planning and plan development shall be established, documented, and adopted to ensure all business continuity plans are consistent in addressing priorities for testing, maintenance, and information security requirements.  Requirements for business continuity plans include the following:  • Defined purpose and scope, aligned with relevant dependencies  • Accessible to and understood by those who will use them  • Owned by a named person(s) who is responsible for their review, update, and approval  • Defined lines of communication, roles, and responsibilities  • Detailed recovery procedures, manual work-around, and reference information  • Method for plan invocation
1	Information systems shall be regularly reviewed for compliance with the organization's information security policies and standards.	BYOD and/or company-owned devices are configured to require an automatic lockout screen, and the requirement shall be enforced through technical controls.
1	Asset owners shall review users' access rights at regular intervals.	Policies and procedures are established for permissible storage and access of identities used for authentication to ensure identities are only accessible based on rules of least privilege and replication limitation only to users explicitly defined as business necessary.
1	Rules for the acceptable use of information and of assets associated with information and information processing facilities shall be identified, documented and implemented.	Production data shall not be replicated or used in non-production environments. Any use of customer data in non-production environments requires explicit, documented approval from all customers whose data is affected, and must comply with all legal and regulatory requirements for scrubbing of sensitive data elements.
0	Control and manage logical access to the cardholder data environment	Control and manage logical access to the cardholder data environment
1	Data protection and privacy shall be ensured as required in relevant legislation, regulations, and contractual clauses.	Keys must have identifiable owners (binding keys to identities) and there shall be key management policies.
0	Records shall be protected from loss, destruction, falsification, unauthorized access and unauthorized release, in accordance with legislator^ regulatory, contractual and business requirements.	Utility programs capable of potentially overriding system, object, network, virtual machine, and application controls shall be restricted.
0	The organization:  a. Separates [Assignment: organization-defined duties of individuals];  b. Documents separation of duties of individuals; and  c. Defines information system access authorizations to support separation of duties.	The provider shall have a documented mobile device policy that includes a documented definition for mobile devices and the acceptable usage and requirements for all mobile devices. The provider shall post and communicate the policy and requirements through the company's security awareness and training program.
0	The information system separates information flows logically or physically using [Assignment: organization-defined mechanisms and/or techniques] to accomplish [Assignment: organization- defined required separations by types of information].	Platform and data-appropriate encryption (e.g., AES-256) in open/validated formats and standard algorithms shall be required. Keys shall not be stored in the cloud (i.e., at the cloud provider in question), but maintained by the cloud consumer or trusted key management provider. Key management and key usage shall be separated duties.
0	Privacy and protection of personally identifiable information shall be ensured as required in relevant legislation and regulation where applicable.	Employment agreements shall incorporate provisions and/or terms for adherence to established information governance and security policies and must be signed by newly hired or on-boarded workforce personnel (e.g., full or part-time employee or contingent staff) prior to granting workforce personnel user access to corporate facilities, resources, and assets.
1	Establish, document, and distribute security incident response and escalation procedures to ensure timely and effective handling of all situations.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for appropriate IT governance and service management to ensure appropriate planning, delivery, and support of the organization's IT capabilities supporting business functions, workforce, and/or customers based on industry acceptable standards (i.e., ITIL v4 and COBIT 5). Additionally, policies and procedures shall include defined roles and responsibilities supported by regular workforce training.
0	Remove/disable inactive user accounts within 90 days.	Policies and procedures shall be established for managing the risks associated with applying changes to:  • Business-critical or customer (tenant)-impacting (physical and virtual) applications and system-system interface (API) designs and configurations.  • Infrastructure network and systems components. Technical measures shall be implemented to provide assurance that all changes directly correspond to a registered change request, business-critical or customer (tenant), and/or authorization by, the customer (tenant) as per agreement (SLA) prior to deployment.
0	Managers shall regularly review the compliance of information processing and procedures within their area of responsibility with the appropriate security policies, standards and any other security requirements.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for defining and adhering to the retention period of any critical asset as per established policies and procedures, as well as applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance obligations. Backup and recovery measures shall be incorporated as part of business continuity planning and tested accordingly for effectiveness.
0	Requirement to review firewall and router rule sets at least every six months	Supply chain agreements (e.g., SLAs) between providers and customers (tenants) shall incorporate at least the following mutually-agreed upon provisions and/or terms:  • Scope of business relationship and services offered (e.g., customer (tenant) data acquisition, exchange and usage, feature sets and functionality, personnel and infrastructure network and systems components for service delivery and support, roles and responsibilities of provider and customer (tenant) and any subcontracted or outsourced business relationships, physical geographical location of hosted services, and any known regulatory compliance considerations)  • Information security requirements, provider and customer (tenant) primary points of contact for the duration of the business relationship, and references to detailed supporting and relevant business processes and technical measures implemented to enable effectively governance, risk management, assurance and legal, statutory and regulatory compliance obligations by all impacted business relationships  • Notification and/or pre-authorization of any changes controlled by the provider with customer (tenant) impacts  • Timely notification of a security incident (or confirmed breach) to all customers (tenants) and other business relationships impacted (i.e., up- and down-stream impacted supply chain)  • Assessment and independent verification of compliance with agreement provisions and/or terms (e.g., industry-acceptable certification, attestation audit report, or equivalent forms of assurance) without posing an unacceptable business risk of exposure to the organization being assessed  • Expiration of the business relationship and treatment of customer (tenant) data impacted  • Customer (tenant) service-to-service application (API) and data interoperability and portability requirements for application development and information exchange, usage, and integrity persistence
0	When operating platforms are changed, business critical applications shall be reviewed and tested to ensure there is no adverse impact on organizational operations or security.	Third-party service providers shall demonstrate compliance with information security and confidentiality, access control, service definitions, and delivery level agreements included in third-party contracts. Third-party reports, records, and services shall undergo audit and review at least annually to govern and maintain compliance with the service delivery agreements.
1	Information involved in application services passing over public networks shall be protected from fraudulent activity, contract dispute and unauthorized disclosure and modification.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for the use of encryption protocols for protection of sensitive data in storage (e.g., file servers, databases, and end-user workstations), data in use (memory), and data in transmission (e.g., system interfaces, over public networks, and electronic messaging) as per applicable legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations.
0	Protect devices that capture payment card data via direct physical interaction with the card from tampering and substitution.	The provider shall have a documented mobile device policy that includes a documented definition for mobile devices and the acceptable usage and requirements for all mobile devices. The provider shall post and communicate the policy and requirements through the company's security awareness and training program.
0	• Is your air-conditioning capable of supporting your environment? o How often is it tested? 	Requirements for non-disclosure or confidentiality agreements reflecting the organization's needs for the protection of data and operational details shall be identified, documented, and reviewed at planned intervals.
0	Install perimeter firewalls between all wireless networks and the cardholder data environment, and configure these firewalls to deny or, if traffic is necessary for business purposes, permit only authorized traffic between the wireless environment and the cardholder data environment.	A formal disciplinary or sanction policy shall be established for employees who have violated security policies and procedures. Employees shall be made aware of what action might be taken in the event of a violation, and disciplinary measures must be stated in the policies and procedures.
0	The information system, for password-based authentication:  (a)   Enforces minimum password complexity of [Assignment: organization-defined requirements for case sensitivity, number of characters, mix of upper-case letters, lower-case letters, numbers, and special characters, including minimum requirements for each type];  (b)   Enforces at least the following number of changed characters when new passwords are created: [Assignment: organization-defined number];  (c)   Stores and transmits only encrypted representations of passwords;  (d)   Enforces password minimum and maximum lifetime restrictions of [Assignment: organization- defined numbers for lifetime minimum, lifetime maximum];  (e)   Prohibits password reuse for [Assignment: organization-defined number] generations; and  (f) Allows the use of a temporary password for system logons with an immediate change to a permanent password.	User access shall be authorized and revalidated for entitlement appropriateness, at planned intervals, by the organization's business leadership or other accountable business role or function supported by evidence to demonstrate the organization is adhering to the rule of least privilege based on job function. For identified access violations, remediation must follow established user access policies and procedures.
0	Deploy system configuration management tools that will automatically enforce and redeploy configuration settings to systems at regularly scheduled intervals.	Platform and data-appropriate encryption (e.g., AES-256) in open/validated formats and standard algorithms shall be required. Keys shall not be stored in the cloud (i.e., at the cloud provider in question), but maintained by the cloud consumer or trusted key management provider. Key management and key usage shall be separated duties.
1	Management shall require all employees and contractors to apply information security in accordance with the established policies and procedures of the organization.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for appropriate IT governance and service management to ensure appropriate planning, delivery, and support of the organization's IT capabilities supporting business functions, workforce, and/or customers based on industry acceptable standards (i.e., ITIL v4 and COBIT 5). Additionally, policies and procedures shall include defined roles and responsibilities supported by regular workforce training.
0	Visitors are asked to surrender the badge or identification before leaving the facility or at the date of expiration.	Policies and procedures shall be established to store and manage identity information about every person who accesses IT infrastructure and to determine their level of access. Policies shall also be developed to control access to network resources based on user identity.
0	All employees of the organization and contractors and third-party users shall receive appropriate awareness training and regular updates in organizational policies and procedures, as relevant for their job function.	Authorization must be obtained prior to relocation or transfer of hardware, software, or data to an offsite premises.
0	The organization:  a. Maintains temperature and humidity levels within the facility where the information system resides at [Assignment: organization-defined acceptable levels]; and  b. Monitors temperature and humidity levels [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	Access to, and use of, audit tools that interact with the organization's information systems shall be appropriately segregated and access restricted to prevent inappropriate disclosure and tampering of log data.
1	• Who holds the access keys?	Policies and procedures shall be established for the management of cryptographic keys in the service's cryptosystem (e.g., lifecycle management from key generation to revocation and replacement, public key infrastructure, cryptographic protocol design and algorithms used, access controls in place for secure key generation, and exchange and storage including segregation of keys used for encrypted data or sessions). Upon request, provider shall inform the customer (tenant) of changes within the cryptosystem, especially if the customer (tenant) data is used as part of the service, and/or the customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of the control.
1	Protect devices that capture payment card data via direct physical interaction with the card from tampering and substitution.	Physical protection against damage from natural causes and disasters, as well as deliberate attacks, including fire, flood, atmospheric electrical discharge, solar induced geomagnetic storm, wind, earthquake, tsunami, explosion, nuclear accident, volcanic activity, biological hazard, civil unrest, mudslide, tectonic activity, and other forms of natural or man-made disaster shall be anticipated, designed, and have countermeasures applied.
1	Deploy automated software update tools in order to ensure that the operating systems are running the most recent security updates provided by the software vendor.	Implementers shall ensure that the security vulnerability assessment tools or services accommodate the virtualization technologies used (e.g., virtualization aware).
1	Incorporate multi-factor authentication for all remote network access (both user and administrator, and including third-party access for support or maintenance) originating from outside the entity’s network.	External business partners shall adhere to the same policies and procedures for change management, release, and testing as internal developers within the organization (e.g., ITIL service management processes).
1	The organization employs the principle of least privilege, allowing only authorized accesses for users (or processes acting on behalf of users) which are necessary to accomplish assigned tasks in accordance with organizational missions and business functions.	Access to the organization's own developed applications, program, or object source code, or any other form of intellectual property (IP), and use of proprietary software shall be appropriately restricted following the rule of least privilege based on job function as per established user access policies and procedures.
1	Use appropriate facility entry controls to limit and monitor physical access to systems in the cardholder data environment.	Physical access to information assets and functions by users and support personnel shall be restricted.
1	The information system protects the [Selection (one or more): confidentiality; integrity] of transmitted information.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for the use of encryption protocols for protection of sensitive data in storage (e.g., file servers, databases, and end-user workstations), data in use (memory), and data in transmission (e.g., system interfaces, over public networks, and electronic messaging) as per applicable legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations.
0	The organization employs automated mechanisms to maintain an up-to-date, complete, accurate, and readily available baseline configuration of the information system.	Timely de-provisioning (revocation or modification) of user access to data and organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) applications, infrastructure systems, and network components, shall be implemented as per established policies and procedures and based on user's change in status (e.g., termination of employment or other business relationship, job change, or transfer). Upon request, provider shall inform customer (tenant) of these changes, especially if customer (tenant) data is used as part the service and/or customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of control.
1	Configure system security parameters to prevent misuse.	Multi-tenant organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) applications, and infrastructure system and network components, shall be designed, developed, deployed, and configured such that provider and customer (tenant) user access is appropriately segmented from other tenant users, based on the following considerations:  • Established policies and procedures  • Isolation of business critical assets and/or sensitive user data, and sessions that mandate stronger internal controls and high levels of assurance  • Compliance with legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations
0	Maintain an up-to-date list of devices. The list should include the following:  Make, model of device  Location of device (for example, the address of the site or facility where the device is located)  Device serial number or other method of unique identification.PCI DSS Requirements	Aligned with the enterprise-wide framework, formal risk assessments shall be performed at least annually or at planned intervals, (and in conjunction with any changes to information systems) to determine the likelihood and impact of all identified risks using qualitative and quantitative methods. The likelihood and impact associated with inherent and residual risk shall be determined independently, considering all risk categories (e.g., audit results, threat and vulnerability analysis, and regulatory compliance).
1	• How do you manage access to customer system images – and ensure that the authentication and cryptographic keys are not contained within in them?	Policies and procedures shall be established for the management of cryptographic keys in the service's cryptosystem (e.g., lifecycle management from key generation to revocation and replacement, public key infrastructure, cryptographic protocol design and algorithms used, access controls in place for secure key generation, and exchange and storage including segregation of keys used for encrypted data or sessions). Upon request, provider shall inform the customer (tenant) of changes within the cryptosystem, especially if the customer (tenant) data is used as part of the service, and/or the customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of the control.
0	Utilize centrally managed anti-malware software to continuously monitor and defend each of the organization’s workstations and servers.	Audit plans shall be developed and maintained to address business process disruptions. Auditing plans shall focus on reviewing the effectiveness of the implementation of security operations. All audit activities must be agreed upon prior to executing any audits.
0	The organization:  a. Develops, documents, and disseminates to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]:    1. A security planning policy that addresses purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment, coordination among organizational entities, and compliance; and    2. Procedures to facilitate the implementation of the security planning policy and associated security planning controls; and  b. Reviews and updates the current:    1. Security planning policy [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and    2. Security planning procedures [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to prevent the execution of unauthorized mobile code, defined as software transferred between systems over a trusted or untrusted network and executed on a local system without explicit installation or execution by the recipient, on organizationally-owned or managed user end-point devices (e.g., issued workstations, laptops, and mobile devices) and IT infrastructure network and systems components.
1	Management shall require employees, and where applicable, contractors and third-party users, to apply security in accordance with established policies and procedures of the organization.	All personnel shall be made aware of their roles and responsibilities for:  • Maintaining awareness and compliance with established policies and procedures and applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance obligations.  • Maintaining a safe and secure working environment
0	A formal policy shall be in place, and appropriate security measures shall be adopted to protect against the risks of using mobile computing and communication devices.	Mechanisms shall be put in place to monitor and quantify the types, volumes, and costs of information security incidents.
0	All relevant legislative statutory, regulatory, contractual requirements and the organization's approach to meet these requirements shall be explicitly identified, documented and kept up to date for each information system and the organization.	An Information Security Management Program (ISMP) shall be developed, documented, approved, and implemented that includes administrative, technical, and physical safeguards to protect assets and data from loss, misuse, unauthorized access, disclosure, alteration, and destruction. The security program shall include, but not be limited to, the following areas insofar as they relate to the characteristics of the business:  • Risk management  • Security policy  • Organization of information security  • Asset management  • Human resources security  • Physical and environmental security  • Communications and operations management  • Access control  • Information systems acquisition, development, and maintenance
0	Information systems shall be regularly reviewed for compliance with the organization's information security policies and standards.	To reduce the risks from environmental threats, hazards, and opportunities for unauthorized access, equipment shall be kept away from locations subject to high probability environmental risks and supplemented by redundant equipment located at a reasonable distance.
0	· Detail policies and procedures for backup. This should include procedures for the management of removable media and methods for securely destroying media no longer required. (Depending on his business requirements, the customer may wish to put in place an independent backup strategy. This is particularly relevant where time-critical access to back-up is required.)	Aligned with the enterprise-wide framework, formal risk assessments shall be performed at least annually or at planned intervals, (and in conjunction with any changes to information systems) to determine the likelihood and impact of all identified risks using qualitative and quantitative methods. The likelihood and impact associated with inherent and residual risk shall be determined independently, considering all risk categories (e.g., audit results, threat and vulnerability analysis, and regulatory compliance).
1	Privacy and protection of personally identifiable information shall be ensured as required in relevant legislation and regulation where applicable.	All data shall be designated with stewardship, with assigned responsibilities defined, documented, and communicated.
0	Utilize centrally managed anti-malware software to continuously monitor and defend each of the organization’s workstations and servers.	The BYOD policy includes clarifying language for the expectation of privacy, requirements for litigation, e-discovery, and legal holds. The BYOD policy shall clearly state the expectations regarding the loss of non-company data in the case that a wipe of the device is required.
0	The organization:  (a)   Conducts an organizational assessment of risk prior to the acquisition or outsourcing of dedicated information security services; and  (b)   Ensures that the acquisition or outsourcing of dedicated information security services is approved by [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles].	Business-critical or customer (tenant) impacting (physical and virtual) application and system-system interface (API) designs and configurations, and infrastructure network and systems components, shall be designed, developed, and deployed in accordance with mutually agreed-upon service and capacity-level expectations, as well as IT governance and service management policies and procedures.
1	The organization, upon termination of individual employment:  a. Disables information system access within [Assignment: organization-defined time period];  b. Terminates/revokes any authenticators/credentials associated with the individual;  c. Conducts exit interviews that include a discussion of [Assignment: organization-defined information security topics];  d. Retrieves all security-related organizational information system-related property;  e. Retains access to organizational information and information systems formerly controlled by terminated individual; and  f. Notifies [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles] within [Assignment: organization-defined time period].	Upon termination of workforce personnel and/or expiration of external business relationships, all organizationally-owned assets shall be returned within an established period.
1	Information systems shall be regularly reviewed for compliance with the organization's information security policies and standards.	Mobile devices connecting to corporate networks, or storing and accessing company information, shall allow for remote software version/patch validation. All mobile devices shall have the latest available security-related patches installed upon general release by the device manufacturer or carrier and authorized IT personnel shall be able to perform these updates remotely.
0	The organization:  a. Identifies [Assignment: organization-defined user actions] that can be performed on the information system without identification or authentication consistent with organizational missions/business functions; and  b. Documents and provides supporting rationale in the security plan for the information system, user actions not requiring identification or authentication.	A security awareness training program shall be established for all contractors, third-party users, and employees of the organization and mandated when appropriate. All individuals with access to organizational data shall receive appropriate awareness training and regular updates in organizational procedures, processes, and policies relating to their professional function relative to the organization.
0	Disable wireless access on devices that do not have a business purpose for wireless access.	Disable wireless access on devices that do not have a business purpose for wireless access.
1	Install the latest stable version of any securityrelated updates on all network devices.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting processes and technical measures implemented, for timely detection of vulnerabilities within organizationally-owned or managed applications, infrastructure network and system components (e.g., network vulnerability assessment, penetration testing) to ensure the efficiency of implemented security controls. A risk-based model for prioritizing remediation of identified vulnerabilities shall be used. Changes shall be managed through a change management process for all vendor-supplied patches, configuration changes, or changes to the organization's internally developed software. Upon request, the provider informs customer (tenant) of policies and procedures and identified weaknesses especially if customer (tenant) data is used as part the service and/or customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of control.
0	Keep cardholder data storage to a minimum by implementing data retention and disposal policies, procedures and processes that include at least the following for all cardholder data (CHD) storage:  Limiting data storage amount and retention time to that which is required for legal, regulatory, and/or business requirements  Specific retention requirements for cardholder data  Processes for secure deletion of data when no longer needed  A quarterly process for identifying and securely deleting stored cardholder data that exceeds defined retention.PCI DSS Requirements	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to restrict the installation of unauthorized software on organizationally-owned or managed user end-point devices (e.g., issued workstations, laptops, and mobile devices) and IT infrastructure network and systems components.
1	Configure access for all accounts through as few centralized points of authentication as possible, including network, security, and cloud systems.	Policies and procedures shall be established to store and manage identity information about every person who accesses IT infrastructure and to determine their level of access. Policies shall also be developed to control access to network resources based on user identity.
0	o Does the provider carry out help desk tests? For example: o Impersonation tests (is the person at the end of the phone requesting a password reset, really who they say they are?) or so called ‘social engineering’ attacks. 	A consistent unified framework for business continuity planning and plan development shall be established, documented, and adopted to ensure all business continuity plans are consistent in addressing priorities for testing, maintenance, and information security requirements.  Requirements for business continuity plans include the following:  • Defined purpose and scope, aligned with relevant dependencies  • Accessible to and understood by those who will use them  • Owned by a named person(s) who is responsible for their review, update, and approval  • Defined lines of communication, roles, and responsibilities  • Detailed recovery procedures, manual work-around, and reference information  • Method for plan invocation
0	The organization:  a. Establishes an alternate storage site including necessary agreements to permit the storage and retrieval of information system backup information; and  b. Ensures that the alternate storage site provides information security safeguards equivalent to that of the primary site.	Managers are responsible for maintaining awareness of, and complying with, security policies, procedures, and standards that are relevant to their area of responsibility.
1	Secure areas shall be protected by appropriate entry controls to ensure that only authorized personnel are allowed access.	Ingress and egress to secure areas shall be constrained and monitored by physical access control mechanisms to ensure that only authorized personnel are allowed access.
0	When operating platforms are changed, business critical applications shall be reviewed and tested to ensure there is no adverse impact on organizational operations or security.	Roles and responsibilities for performing employment termination or change in employment procedures shall be assigned, documented, and communicated.
0	The information system routes [Assignment: organization-defined internal communications traffic] to [Assignment: organization-defined external networks] through authenticated proxy servers at managed interfaces.	Independent reviews and assessments shall be performed at least annually to ensure that the organization addresses nonconformities of established policies, standards, procedures, and compliance obligations.
1	Test data shall be selected carefully, and protected and controlled in non-production environments.	Production data shall not be replicated or used in non-production environments. Any use of customer data in non-production environments requires explicit, documented approval from all customers whose data is affected, and must comply with all legal and regulatory requirements for scrubbing of sensitive data elements.
1	The organization:  a. Develops a security assessment plan that describes the scope of the assessment including:    1. Security controls and control enhancements under assessment;    2. Assessment procedures to be used to determine security control effectiveness; and    3. Assessment environment, assessment team, and assessment roles and responsibilities;  b. Assesses the security controls in the information system and its environment of operation [Assignment: organization-defined frequency] to determine the extent to which the controls are implemented correctly, operating as intended, and producing the desired outcome with respect to meeting established security requirements;  c. Produces a security assessment report that documents the results of the assessment; and  d. Provides the results of the security control assessment to [Assignment: organization-defined individuals or roles].	Audit plans shall be developed and maintained to address business process disruptions. Auditing plans shall focus on reviewing the effectiveness of the implementation of security operations. All audit activities must be agreed upon prior to executing any audits.
1	All access to any database containing cardholder data (including access by applications, administrators, and all other users) is restricted as follows:  All user access to, user queries of, and user actions on databases are through programmatic methods.  Only database administrators have the ability to directly access or query databases.  Application IDs for database applications can only be used by the applications (and not by individual users or other non-application processes).	External business partners shall adhere to the same policies and procedures for change management, release, and testing as internal developers within the organization (e.g., ITIL service management processes).
1	All employees of the organization and contractors and third-party users shall receive appropriate awareness training and regular updates in organizational policies and procedures, as relevant for their job function.	A security awareness training program shall be established for all contractors, third-party users, and employees of the organization and mandated when appropriate. All individuals with access to organizational data shall receive appropriate awareness training and regular updates in organizational procedures, processes, and policies relating to their professional function relative to the organization.
0	To ensure that information security is designed and implemented within the development lifecycle of information systems.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to prevent the execution of malware on organizationally-owned or managed user end-point devices (i.e., issued workstations, laptops, and mobile devices) and IT infrastructure network and systems components.
1	Build firewall and router configurations that restrict connections between untrusted networks and any system components in the cardholder data environment.	Network environments and virtual instances shall be designed and configured to restrict and monitor traffic between trusted and untrusted connections. These configurations shall be reviewed at least annually, and supported by a documented justification for use for all allowed services, protocols, ports, and by compensating controls.
1	The organization permits authorized individuals to use an external information system to access the information system or to process, store, or transmit organization-controlled information only when the organization:  (a)   Verifies the implementation of required security controls on the external system as specified in the organization’s information security policy and security plan; or  (b)   Retains approved information system connection or processing agreements with the organizational entity hosting the external information system.	All cloud-based services used by the company's mobile devices or BYOD shall be pre-approved for usage and the storage of company business data.
1	The organization:  a. Enforces physical access authorizations at [Assignment: organization-defined entry/exit points to the facility where the information system resides] by;    1. Verifying individual access authorizations before granting access to the facility; and    2. Controlling ingress/egress to the facility using [Selection (one or more): [Assignment: organization-defined physical access control systems/devices]; guards];  b. Maintains physical access audit logs for [Assignment: organization-defined entry/exit points];  c. Provides [Assignment: organization-defined security safeguards] to control access to areas within the facility officially designated as publicly accessible;  d. Escorts visitors and monitors visitor activity [Assignment: organization-defined circumstances requiring visitor escorts and monitoring];  e. Secures keys, combinations, and other physical access devices;  f. Inventories [Assignment: organization-defined physical access devices] every [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and  g. Changes combinations and keys [Assignment: organization-defined frequency] and/or when keys are lost, combinations are compromised, or individuals are transferred or terminated.	Physical security perimeters (e.g., fences, walls, barriers, guards, gates, electronic surveillance, physical authentication mechanisms, reception desks, and security patrols) shall be implemented to safeguard sensitive data and information systems.
0	Subscribe to URL categorization services to ensure that they are up-to-date with the most recent website category definitions available. Uncategorized sites shall be blocked by default.	A reliable and mutually agreed upon external time source shall be used to synchronize the system clocks of all relevant information processing systems to facilitate tracing and reconstitution of activity timelines.
0	The organization incorporates the detection of unauthorized [Assignment: organization-defined security-relevant changes to the information system] into the organizational incident response capability.	The organization incorporates the detection of unauthorized [Assignment: organization-defined security-relevant changes to the information system] into the organizational incident response capability.
0	• What assurance can the PaaS provider give that access to your data is restricted to your enterprise users and to the applications you own?	Managers are responsible for maintaining awareness of, and complying with, security policies, procedures, and standards that are relevant to their area of responsibility.
0	To ensure the protection of information in networks and its supporting information processing facilities.	To ensure the protection of information in networks and its supporting information processing facilities.
0	Changes to the organization, business processes, information processing facilities and systems that affect information security shall be controlled.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for the use of encryption protocols for protection of sensitive data in storage (e.g., file servers, databases, and end-user workstations), data in use (memory), and data in transmission (e.g., system interfaces, over public networks, and electronic messaging) as per applicable legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations.
0	Users shall only be provided with access to the network and network services that they have been specifically authorized to use.	Data center utilities services and environmental conditions (e.g., water, power, temperature and humidity controls, telecommunications, and internet connectivity) shall be secured, monitored, maintained, and tested for continual effectiveness at planned intervals to ensure protection from unauthorized interception or damage, and designed with automated fail-over or other redundancies in the event of planned or unplanned disruptions.
0	Cryptographic controls shall be used in compliance with all relevant agreements, legislation and regulations.	The provider shall ensure the integrity of all virtual machine images at all times. Any changes made to virtual machine images must be logged and an alert raised regardless of their running state (e.g., dormant, off, or running). The results of a change or move of an image and the subsequent validation of the image's integrity must be immediately available to customers through electronic methods (e.g., portals or alerts).
1	The organization:  a. Enforces physical access authorizations at [Assignment: organization-defined entry/exit points to the facility where the information system resides] by;    1. Verifying individual access authorizations before granting access to the facility; and    2. Controlling ingress/egress to the facility using [Selection (one or more): [Assignment: organization-defined physical access control systems/devices]; guards];  b. Maintains physical access audit logs for [Assignment: organization-defined entry/exit points];  c. Provides [Assignment: organization-defined security safeguards] to control access to areas within the facility officially designated as publicly accessible;  d. Escorts visitors and monitors visitor activity [Assignment: organization-defined circumstances requiring visitor escorts and monitoring];  e. Secures keys, combinations, and other physical access devices;  f. Inventories [Assignment: organization-defined physical access devices] every [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and  g. Changes combinations and keys [Assignment: organization-defined frequency] and/or when keys are lost, combinations are compromised, or individuals are transferred or terminated.	Physical access to information assets and functions by users and support personnel shall be restricted.
0	The organization’s application whitelisting software must ensure that only authorized, digitally signed scripts (such as *.ps1, *.py, macros, etc.) are allowed to run on a system.	The organization’s application whitelisting software must ensure that only authorized, digitally signed scripts (such as *.ps1, *.py, macros, etc.) are allowed to run on a system.
0	The organization: (a) Establishes and administers privileged user accounts in accordance with a role-based access scheme that organizes allowed information system access and privileges into roles; (b) Monitors privileged role assignments; and (c) Takes [Assignment: organization-defined actions] when privileged role assignments are no longer appropriate.	Data and objects containing data shall be assigned a classification by the data owner based on data type, value, sensitivity, and criticality to the organization.
0	• Does the system allow for a federated IDM infrastructure which is interoperable both for high assurance (OTP systems, where required) and low assurance (eg. username and password)?	Policies and procedures shall be established and maintained in support of data security to include (confidentiality, integrity, and availability) across multiple system interfaces, jurisdictions, and business functions to prevent improper disclosure, alteration, or destruction.
0	Requirements for confidentiality or non-disclosure agreements reflecting the organization's needs for the protection of information shall be identified, regularly reviewed and documented.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting processes and technical measures implemented, for timely detection of vulnerabilities within organizationally-owned or managed applications, infrastructure network and system components (e.g., network vulnerability assessment, penetration testing) to ensure the efficiency of implemented security controls. A risk-based model for prioritizing remediation of identified vulnerabilities shall be used. Changes shall be managed through a change management process for all vendor-supplied patches, configuration changes, or changes to the organization's internally developed software. Upon request, the provider informs customer (tenant) of policies and procedures and identified weaknesses especially if customer (tenant) data is used as part the service and/or customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of control.
1	If manual clear-text cryptographic key-management operations are used, these operations must be managed using split knowledge and dual control.	Access to all hypervisor management functions or administrative consoles for systems hosting virtualized systems shall be restricted to personnel based upon the principle of least privilege and supported through technical controls (e.g., two-factor authentication, audit trails, IP address filtering, firewalls, and TLS encapsulated communications to the administrative consoles).
1	Agreements shall address the secure transfer of business information between the organization and external parties.	Policies and procedures shall be established and maintained in support of data security to include (confidentiality, integrity, and availability) across multiple system interfaces, jurisdictions, and business functions to prevent improper disclosure, alteration, or destruction.
0	Users shall  be required to follow the organization's practices in the  use of secret authentication information.	Provisioning user access (e.g., employees, contractors, customers (tenants), business partners, and/or supplier relationships) to data and organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) applications, infrastructure systems, and network components shall be authorized by the organization's management prior to access being granted and appropriately restricted as per established policies and procedures. Upon request, provider shall inform customer (tenant) of this user access, especially if customer (tenant) data is used as part the service and/or customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of control.
0	• What methods do you use to prevent damage from a fire, flood, earthquake, etc? o In the event of a disaster, what additional security measures are put in place to protect physical access? o Both at the primary as well as at the secondary sites? 	Multi-tenant organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) applications, and infrastructure system and network components, shall be designed, developed, deployed, and configured such that provider and customer (tenant) user access is appropriately segmented from other tenant users, based on the following considerations:  • Established policies and procedures  • Isolation of business critical assets and/or sensitive user data, and sessions that mandate stronger internal controls and high levels of assurance  • Compliance with legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations
1	• Are credentials provisioned and de-provisioned simultaneously throughout the cloud system, or are there any risks in de-provisioning them across multiple geographically distributed locations?	User access policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for ensuring appropriate identity, entitlement, and access management for all internal corporate and customer (tenant) users with access to data and organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) application interfaces and infrastructure network and systems components. These policies, procedures, processes, and measures must incorporate the following:  • Procedures, supporting roles, and responsibilities for provisioning and de-provisioning user account entitlements following the rule of least privilege based on job function (e.g., internal employee and contingent staff personnel changes, customer-controlled access, suppliers' business relationships, or other third-party business relationships)  • Business case considerations for higher levels of assurance and multi-factor authentication secrets (e.g., management interfaces, key generation, remote access, segregation of duties, emergency access, large-scale provisioning or geographically-distributed deployments, and personnel redundancy for critical systems)  • Access segmentation to sessions and data in multi-tenant architectures by any third party (e.g., provider and/or other customer (tenant))  • Identity trust verification and service-to-service application (API) and information processing interoperability (e.g., SSO and federation)  • Account credential lifecycle management from instantiation through revocation  • Account credential and/or identity store minimization or re-use when feasible  • Authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules for access to data and sessions (e.g., encryption and strong/multi-factor, expireable, non-shared authentication secrets)  • Permissions and supporting capabilities for customer (tenant) controls over authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules for access to data and sessions  • Adherence to applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance requirements
1	If disk encryption is used (rather than file- or column-level database encryption), logical access must be managed separately and independently of native operating system authentication and access control mechanisms (for example, by not using local user account databases or general network login credentials). Decryption keys must not be associated with user accounts.	Policies and procedures shall be established and maintained in support of data security to include (confidentiality, integrity, and availability) across multiple system interfaces, jurisdictions, and business functions to prevent improper disclosure, alteration, or destruction.
1	An access control policy shall be established, documented and reviewed based on business and information security requirements.	User access to diagnostic and configuration ports shall be restricted to authorized individuals and applications.
0	The information system:  a. Generates error messages that provide information necessary for corrective actions without revealing information that could be exploited by adversaries; and  b. Reveals error messages only to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles].	Employment agreements shall incorporate provisions and/or terms for adherence to established information governance and security policies and must be signed by newly hired or on-boarded workforce personnel (e.g., full or part-time employee or contingent staff) prior to granting workforce personnel user access to corporate facilities, resources, and assets.
0	Additional requirement for service providers only: Service providers with remote access to customer premises (for example, for support of POS systems or servers) must use a unique authentication credential (such as a password/phrase) for each customer.	Managers are responsible for maintaining awareness of, and complying with, security policies, procedures, and standards that are relevant to their area of responsibility.
0	• Do you only allow authorised maintenance or repair staff onto the site? o How do you check their identity? 	Points of contact for applicable regulation authorities, national and local law enforcement, and other legal jurisdictional authorities shall be maintained and regularly updated (e.g., change in impacted-scope and/or a change in any compliance obligation) to ensure direct compliance liaisons have been established and to be prepared for a forensic investigation requiring rapid engagement with law enforcement.
0	Do not use group, shared, or generic IDs, passwords, or other authentication methods as follows:  Generic user IDs are disabled or removed.  Shared user IDs do not exist for system administration and other critical functions.  Shared and generic user IDs are not used to administer any system components.PCI DSS Requirements	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to restrict the installation of unauthorized software on organizationally-owned or managed user end-point devices (e.g., issued workstations, laptops, and mobile devices) and IT infrastructure network and systems components.
1	Management shall require employees, and where applicable, contractors and third-party users, to apply security in accordance with established policies and procedures of the organization.	The BYOD policy shall clarify the systems and servers allowed for use or access on a BYOD-enabled device.
1	Manage all network devices using multi-factor authentication and encrypted sessions.	Network architecture diagrams shall clearly identify high-risk environments and data flows that may have legal compliance impacts. Technical measures shall be implemented and shall apply defense-in-depth techniques (e.g., deep packet analysis, traffic throttling, and black-holing) for detection and timely response to network-based attacks associated with anomalous ingress or egress traffic patterns (e.g., MAC spoofing and ARP poisoning attacks) and/or distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) attacks.
0	Information Security Policy documents shall be approved by management, and published and communicated to all employees and relevant external parties. Information Security Policy documents shall establish the direction of the organization and align to best practices, regulatory, federal/state and international laws where applicable. The Information Security policy documents shall be supported by a strategic plan and a security program with well-defined roles and responsibilities for leadership and officer roles.	Aligned with the enterprise-wide framework, formal risk assessments shall be performed at least annually or at planned intervals, (and in conjunction with any changes to information systems) to determine the likelihood and impact of all identified risks using qualitative and quantitative methods. The likelihood and impact associated with inherent and residual risk shall be determined independently, considering all risk categories (e.g., audit results, threat and vulnerability analysis, and regulatory compliance).
1	The information system, for PKI-based authentication:  (a)   Validates certifications by constructing and verifying a certification path to an accepted trust anchor including checking certificate status information;  (b)   Enforces authorized access to the corresponding private key;  (c)   Maps the authenticated identity to the account of the individual or group; and  (d)   Implements a local cache of revocation data to support path discovery and validation in case of inability to access revocation information via the network.	User access policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for ensuring appropriate identity, entitlement, and access management for all internal corporate and customer (tenant) users with access to data and organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) application interfaces and infrastructure network and systems components. These policies, procedures, processes, and measures must incorporate the following:  • Procedures, supporting roles, and responsibilities for provisioning and de-provisioning user account entitlements following the rule of least privilege based on job function (e.g., internal employee and contingent staff personnel changes, customer-controlled access, suppliers' business relationships, or other third-party business relationships)  • Business case considerations for higher levels of assurance and multi-factor authentication secrets (e.g., management interfaces, key generation, remote access, segregation of duties, emergency access, large-scale provisioning or geographically-distributed deployments, and personnel redundancy for critical systems)  • Access segmentation to sessions and data in multi-tenant architectures by any third party (e.g., provider and/or other customer (tenant))  • Identity trust verification and service-to-service application (API) and information processing interoperability (e.g., SSO and federation)  • Account credential lifecycle management from instantiation through revocation  • Account credential and/or identity store minimization or re-use when feasible  • Authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules for access to data and sessions (e.g., encryption and strong/multi-factor, expireable, non-shared authentication secrets)  • Permissions and supporting capabilities for customer (tenant) controls over authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules for access to data and sessions  • Adherence to applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance requirements
1	Information systems shall be regularly reviewed for compliance with the organization's information security policies and standards.	Secured and encrypted communication channels shall be used when migrating physical servers, applications, or data to virtualized servers and, where possible, shall use a network segregated from production-level networks for such migrations.
1	Monitor and control all access to data.	All data shall be designated with stewardship, with assigned responsibilities defined, documented, and communicated.
1	Fully document and implement all key- management processes and procedures for cryptographic keys used for encryption of cardholder data, including the following:	External business partners shall adhere to the same policies and procedures for change management, release, and testing as internal developers within the organization (e.g., ITIL service management processes).
0	Enable anti-exploitation features such as Data Execution Prevention (DEP) or Address Space Layout Randomization (ASLR) that are available in an operating system or deploy appropriate toolkits that can be configured to apply protection to a broader set of applications and executables.	Internal corporate or customer (tenant) user account credentials shall be restricted as per the following, ensuring appropriate identity, entitlement, and access management and in accordance with established policies and procedures:  • Identity trust verification and service-to-service application (API) and information processing interoperability (e.g., SSO and Federation)  • Account credential lifecycle management from instantiation through revocation  • Account credential and/or identity store minimization or re-use when feasible  • Adherence to industry acceptable and/or regulatory compliant authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules (e.g., strong/multi-factor, expireable, non-shared authentication secrets)
1	Automatic equipment identification shall be used as a means to authenticate connections from specific locations and equipment.	Automated equipment identification shall be used as a method of connection authentication. Location-aware technologies may be used to validate connection authentication integrity based on known equipment location.
1	A clear desk policy for papers and removable storage media and a clear screen policy for information assets shall be adopted.	Policies and procedures shall be established to require that unattended workspaces do not have openly visible (e.g., on a desktop) sensitive documents and user computing sessions are disabled after an established period of inactivity.
1	The information system implements multifactor authentication for remote access to privileged and non-privileged accounts such that one of the factors is provided by a device separate from the system gaining access and the device meets [Assignment: organization-defined strength of mechanism requirements].	User access policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for ensuring appropriate identity, entitlement, and access management for all internal corporate and customer (tenant) users with access to data and organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) application interfaces and infrastructure network and systems components. These policies, procedures, processes, and measures must incorporate the following:  • Procedures, supporting roles, and responsibilities for provisioning and de-provisioning user account entitlements following the rule of least privilege based on job function (e.g., internal employee and contingent staff personnel changes, customer-controlled access, suppliers' business relationships, or other third-party business relationships)  • Business case considerations for higher levels of assurance and multi-factor authentication secrets (e.g., management interfaces, key generation, remote access, segregation of duties, emergency access, large-scale provisioning or geographically-distributed deployments, and personnel redundancy for critical systems)  • Access segmentation to sessions and data in multi-tenant architectures by any third party (e.g., provider and/or other customer (tenant))  • Identity trust verification and service-to-service application (API) and information processing interoperability (e.g., SSO and federation)  • Account credential lifecycle management from instantiation through revocation  • Account credential and/or identity store minimization or re-use when feasible  • Authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules for access to data and sessions (e.g., encryption and strong/multi-factor, expireable, non-shared authentication secrets)  • Permissions and supporting capabilities for customer (tenant) controls over authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules for access to data and sessions  • Adherence to applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance requirements
1	Establish, publish, maintain, and disseminate a security policy.	Information security policies and procedures shall be established and made readily available for review by all impacted personnel and external business relationships. Information security policies must be authorized by the organization's business leadership (or other accountable business role or function) and supported by a strategic business plan and an information security management program inclusive of defined information security roles and responsibilities for business leadership.
0	Equipment, information or software shall not be taken off site without prior authorization.	Policies and procedures shall be established with supporting business processes and technical measures implemented for the secure disposal and complete removal of data from all storage media, ensuring data is not recoverable by any computer forensic means.
0	Deploy an automated tool on network perimeters that monitors for unauthorized transfer of sensitive information and blocks such transfers while alerting information security professionals.	There shall be a defined and documented method for determining the impact of any disruption to the organization (cloud provider, cloud consumer) that must incorporate the following:  • Identify critical products and services  • Identify all dependencies, including processes, applications, business partners, and third party service providers  • Understand threats to critical products and services  • Determine impacts resulting from planned or unplanned disruptions and how these vary over time  • Establish the maximum tolerable period for disruption  • Establish priorities for recovery  • Establish recovery time objectives for resumption of critical products and services within their maximum tolerable period of disruption  • Estimate the resources required for resumption
1	Encrypt all sensitive information at rest using a tool that requires a secondary authentication mechanism not integrated into the operating system, in order to access the information.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for the use of encryption protocols for protection of sensitive data in storage (e.g., file servers, databases, and end-user workstations), data in use (memory), and data in transmission (e.g., system interfaces, over public networks, and electronic messaging) as per applicable legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations.
0	Managers shall regularly review the compliance of information processing and procedures within their area of responsibility with the appropriate security policies, standards and any other security requirements.	Internal corporate or customer (tenant) user account credentials shall be restricted as per the following, ensuring appropriate identity, entitlement, and access management and in accordance with established policies and procedures:  • Identity trust verification and service-to-service application (API) and information processing interoperability (e.g., SSO and Federation)  • Account credential lifecycle management from instantiation through revocation  • Account credential and/or identity store minimization or re-use when feasible  • Adherence to industry acceptable and/or regulatory compliant authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules (e.g., strong/multi-factor, expireable, non-shared authentication secrets)
1	A formal policy shall be in place, and appropriate security measures shall be adopted to protect against the risks of using mobile computing and communication devices.	The mobile device policy shall require the BYOD user to perform backups of data, prohibit the usage of unapproved application stores, and require the use of anti-malware software (where supported).
0	The organization verifies that all components within the authorization boundary of the information system are not duplicated in other information system inventories.	Data and objects containing data shall be assigned a classification by the data owner based on data type, value, sensitivity, and criticality to the organization.
0	Asset owners shall review users' access rights at regular intervals.	Ingress and egress to secure areas shall be constrained and monitored by physical access control mechanisms to ensure that only authorized personnel are allowed access.
0	The use of resources shall be monitored, tuned and projections made of future capacity requirements to ensure the required system performance.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to prevent the execution of unauthorized mobile code, defined as software transferred between systems over a trusted or untrusted network and executed on a local system without explicit installation or execution by the recipient, on organizationally-owned or managed user end-point devices (e.g., issued workstations, laptops, and mobile devices) and IT infrastructure network and systems components.
0	The allocation of secret authentication information shall be controlled through a formal management process.	Network environments and virtual instances shall be designed and configured to restrict and monitor traffic between trusted and untrusted connections. These configurations shall be reviewed at least annually, and supported by a documented justification for use for all allowed services, protocols, ports, and by compensating controls.
1	Segment the network based on the label or classification level of the information stored on the servers, locate all sensitive information on separated Virtual Local Area Networks (VLANs).	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to inventory, document, and maintain data flows for data that is resident (permanently or temporarily) within the service's geographically distributed (physical and virtual) applications and infrastructure network and systems components and/or shared with other third parties to ascertain any regulatory, statutory, or supply chain agreement (SLA) compliance impact, and to address any other business risks associated with the data. Upon request, provider shall inform customer (tenant) of compliance impact and risk, especially if customer data is used as part of the services.
1	Managers shall regularly review the compliance of information processing and procedures within their area of responsibility with the appropriate security policies, standards and any other security requirements.	The BYOD policy and supporting awareness training clearly states the approved applications, application stores, and application extensions and plugins that may be used for BYOD usage.
0	The organization:  a. Monitors physical access to the facility where the information system resides to detect and respond to physical security incidents;  b. Reviews physical access logs [Assignment: organization-defined frequency] and upon occurrence of [Assignment: organization-defined events or potential indications of events]; and  c. Coordinates results of reviews and investigations with the organizational incident response capability.	The provider shall use an industry-recognized virtualization platform and standard virtualization formats (e.g., OVF) to help ensure interoperability, and shall have documented custom changes made to any hypervisor in use and all solution-specific virtualization hooks available for customer review.
0	The organization establishes terms and conditions, consistent with any trust relationships established with other organizations owning, operating, and/or maintaining external information systems, allowing authorized individuals to:  a. Access the information system from external information systems; and  b. Process, store, or transmit organization-controlled information using external information systems.	Policies, procedures, and mutually-agreed upon provisions and/or terms shall be established to satisfy customer (tenant) requirements for service-to-service application (API) and information processing interoperability, and portability for application development and information exchange, usage, and integrity persistence.
1	The organization:  a. Develops, documents, and disseminates to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]:    1. An identification and authentication policy that addresses purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment, coordination among organizational entities, and compliance; and    2. Procedures to facilitate the implementation of the identification and authentication policy and associated identification and authentication controls; and  b. Reviews and updates the current:    1. Identification and authentication policy [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and    2. Identification and authentication procedures [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	Policies and procedures shall be established and maintained in support of data security to include (confidentiality, integrity, and availability) across multiple system interfaces, jurisdictions, and business functions to prevent improper disclosure, alteration, or destruction.
1	The organization:  a. Monitors physical access to the facility where the information system resides to detect and respond to physical security incidents;  b. Reviews physical access logs [Assignment: organization-defined frequency] and upon occurrence of [Assignment: organization-defined events or potential indications of events]; and  c. Coordinates results of reviews and investigations with the organizational incident response capability.	Ingress and egress to secure areas shall be constrained and monitored by physical access control mechanisms to ensure that only authorized personnel are allowed access.
1	Additional requirement for service providers only: Executive management shall establish responsibility for the protection of cardholder data and a PCI DSS compliance program to include:  Overall accountability for maintaining PCI DSS compliance  Defining a charter for a PCI DSS compliance program and communication to executive management	Executive and line management shall take formal action to support information security through clearly-documented direction and commitment, and shall ensure the action has been assigned.
0	Sensitive systems shall have a dedicated and isolated computing environment.	An inventory of all mobile devices used to store and access company data shall be kept and maintained. All changes to the status of these devices (i.e., operating system and patch levels, lost or decommissioned status, and to whom the device is assigned or approved for usage (BYOD)) will be included for each device in the inventory.
0	o Are assets classified in terms of sensitivity and criticality? o If so, does the provider employ appropriate segregation between systems with different classifications and for a single customer who has systems with different security classifications? 	The BYOD policy and supporting awareness training clearly states the approved applications, application stores, and application extensions and plugins that may be used for BYOD usage.
1	A formal policy shall be in place, and appropriate security measures shall be adopted to protect against the risks of using mobile computing and communication devices.	The provider shall have a documented mobile device policy that includes a documented definition for mobile devices and the acceptable usage and requirements for all mobile devices. The provider shall post and communicate the policy and requirements through the company's security awareness and training program.
0	The organization:  a. Authorizes internal connections of [Assignment: organization-defined information system components or classes of components] to the information system; and  b. Documents, for each internal connection, the interface characteristics, security requirements, and the nature of the information communicated.	Policies and procedures shall be implemented to ensure the consistent review of service agreements (e.g., SLAs) between providers and customers (tenants) across the relevant supply chain (upstream/downstream). Reviews shall be performed at least annually and identify any non-conformance to established agreements. The reviews should result in actions to address service-level conflicts or inconsistencies resulting from disparate supplier relationships.
1	Cross-site request forgery (CSRF)	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for the use of encryption protocols for protection of sensitive data in storage (e.g., file servers, databases, and end-user workstations), data in use (memory), and data in transmission (e.g., system interfaces, over public networks, and electronic messaging) as per applicable legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations.
0	Place application firewalls in front of any critical servers to verify and validate the traffic going to the server. Any unauthorized traffic should be blocked and logged.	Access to the organization's own developed applications, program, or object source code, or any other form of intellectual property (IP), and use of proprietary software shall be appropriately restricted following the rule of least privilege based on job function as per established user access policies and procedures.
0	The organization:  a. Maintains temperature and humidity levels within the facility where the information system resides at [Assignment: organization-defined acceptable levels]; and  b. Monitors temperature and humidity levels [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	Policies and procedures are established for permissible storage and access of identities used for authentication to ensure identities are only accessible based on rules of least privilege and replication limitation only to users explicitly defined as business necessary.
0	The organization develops, documents, and implements a configuration management plan for the information system that:  a. Addresses roles, responsibilities, and configuration management processes and procedures;  b. Establishes a process for identifying configuration items throughout the system development life cycle and for managing the configuration of the configuration items;  c. Defines the configuration items for the information system and places the configuration items under configuration management; and  d. Protects the configuration management plan from unauthorized disclosure and modification.	Information system documentation (e.g., administrator and user guides, and architecture diagrams) shall be made available to authorized personnel to ensure the following:  • Configuring, installing, and operating the information system  • Effectively using the system’s security features
1	The allocation and use of privileged access rights shall be restricted and controlled.	Provisioning user access (e.g., employees, contractors, customers (tenants), business partners, and/or supplier relationships) to data and organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) applications, infrastructure systems, and network components shall be authorized by the organization's management prior to access being granted and appropriately restricted as per established policies and procedures. Upon request, provider shall inform customer (tenant) of this user access, especially if customer (tenant) data is used as part the service and/or customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of control.
0	Document and validate PCI DSS scope	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for the use of encryption protocols for protection of sensitive data in storage (e.g., file servers, databases, and end-user workstations), data in use (memory), and data in transmission (e.g., system interfaces, over public networks, and electronic messaging) as per applicable legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations.
1	The software inventory system should be tied into the hardware asset inventory so all devices and associated software are tracked from a single location.	An inventory of all mobile devices used to store and access company data shall be kept and maintained. All changes to the status of these devices (i.e., operating system and patch levels, lost or decommissioned status, and to whom the device is assigned or approved for usage (BYOD)) will be included for each device in the inventory.
1	Implement physical and/or logical controls to restrict access to publicly accessible network jacks.	External business partners shall adhere to the same policies and procedures for change management, release, and testing as internal developers within the organization (e.g., ITIL service management processes).
1	Buffer overflows	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for the use of encryption protocols for protection of sensitive data in storage (e.g., file servers, databases, and end-user workstations), data in use (memory), and data in transmission (e.g., system interfaces, over public networks, and electronic messaging) as per applicable legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations.
1	Visitors are authorized before entering, and escorted at all times within, areas where cardholder data is processed or maintained.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to restrict the installation of unauthorized software on organizationally-owned or managed user end-point devices (e.g., issued workstations, laptops, and mobile devices) and IT infrastructure network and systems components.
0	If segmentation is used, confirm PCI DSS scope by performing penetration testing on segmentation controls at least every six months and after any changes to segmentation controls/methods.	If segmentation is used, confirm PCI DSS scope by performing penetration testing on segmentation controls at least every six months and after any changes to segmentation controls/methods.
0	Management shall require employees, and where applicable, contractors and third-party users, to apply security in accordance with established policies and procedures of the organization.	Supply chain agreements (e.g., SLAs) between providers and customers (tenants) shall incorporate at least the following mutually-agreed upon provisions and/or terms:  • Scope of business relationship and services offered (e.g., customer (tenant) data acquisition, exchange and usage, feature sets and functionality, personnel and infrastructure network and systems components for service delivery and support, roles and responsibilities of provider and customer (tenant) and any subcontracted or outsourced business relationships, physical geographical location of hosted services, and any known regulatory compliance considerations)  • Information security requirements, provider and customer (tenant) primary points of contact for the duration of the business relationship, and references to detailed supporting and relevant business processes and technical measures implemented to enable effectively governance, risk management, assurance and legal, statutory and regulatory compliance obligations by all impacted business relationships  • Notification and/or pre-authorization of any changes controlled by the provider with customer (tenant) impacts  • Timely notification of a security incident (or confirmed breach) to all customers (tenants) and other business relationships impacted (i.e., up- and down-stream impacted supply chain)  • Assessment and independent verification of compliance with agreement provisions and/or terms (e.g., industry-acceptable certification, attestation audit report, or equivalent forms of assurance) without posing an unacceptable business risk of exposure to the organization being assessed  • Expiration of the business relationship and treatment of customer (tenant) data impacted  • Customer (tenant) service-to-service application (API) and data interoperability and portability requirements for application development and information exchange, usage, and integrity persistence
1	Organizations shall develop and maintain a risk management program to manage risk to an acceptable level.	Providers shall review the risk management and governance processes of their partners so that practices are consistent and aligned to account for risks inherited from other members of that partner's cloud supply chain.
1	Develop configuration standards for all system components. Assure that these standards address all known security vulnerabilities and are consistent with industry-accepted system hardening standards.	Information system documentation (e.g., administrator and user guides, and architecture diagrams) shall be made available to authorized personnel to ensure the following:  • Configuring, installing, and operating the information system  • Effectively using the system’s security features
0	The information system implements cryptographic mechanisms to protect the confidentiality and integrity of information stored on digital media during transport outside of controlled areas.	The information system implements cryptographic mechanisms to protect the confidentiality and integrity of information stored on digital media during transport outside of controlled areas.
1	The information system at managed interfaces denies network communications traffic by default and allows network communications traffic by exception (i.e., deny all, permit by exception).	Network environments and virtual instances shall be designed and configured to restrict and monitor traffic between trusted and untrusted connections. These configurations shall be reviewed at least annually, and supported by a documented justification for use for all allowed services, protocols, ports, and by compensating controls.
0	Additional requirement for service providers only: Respond to failures of any critical security controls in a timely manner. Processes for responding to failures in security controls must include:  Restoring security functions  Identifying and documenting the duration (date and time start to end) of the security failure  Identifying and documenting cause(s) of failure, including root cause, and documenting remediation required to address root cause  Identifying and addressing any security issues that arose during the failure  Performing a risk assessment to determine whether further actions are required as a result of the security failure  Implementing controls to prevent cause of failure from reoccurring  Resuming monitoring of security controls	Additional requirement for service providers only: Respond to failures of any critical security controls in a timely manner. Processes for responding to failures in security controls must include:  Restoring security functions  Identifying and documenting the duration (date and time start to end) of the security failure  Identifying and documenting cause(s) of failure, including root cause, and documenting remediation required to address root cause  Identifying and addressing any security issues that arose during the failure  Performing a risk assessment to determine whether further actions are required as a result of the security failure  Implementing controls to prevent cause of failure from reoccurring  Resuming monitoring of security controls
0	The organization: a. Conducts backups of user-level information contained in the information system [Assignment: organization-defined frequency consistent with recovery time and recovery point objectives]; b. Conducts backups of system-level information contained in the information system [Assignment: organization-defined frequency consistent with recovery time and recovery point objectives]; c. Conducts backups of information system documentation including security-related documentation [Assignment: organization-defined frequency consistent with recovery time and recovery point objectives]; and d. Protects the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of backup information at storage locations.	The organization: a. Conducts backups of user-level information contained in the information system [Assignment: organization-defined frequency consistent with recovery time and recovery point objectives]; b. Conducts backups of system-level information contained in the information system [Assignment: organization-defined frequency consistent with recovery time and recovery point objectives]; c. Conducts backups of information system documentation including security-related documentation [Assignment: organization-defined frequency consistent with recovery time and recovery point objectives]; and d. Protects the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of backup information at storage locations.
1	Implement physical and/or logical controls to restrict access to publicly accessible network jacks.	Physical access to information assets and functions by users and support personnel shall be restricted.
0	The organization:  a. Determines that the information system is capable of auditing the following events: [Assignment: organization-defined auditable events];  b. Coordinates the security audit function with other organizational entities requiring audit- related information to enhance mutual support and to help guide the selection of auditable events;  c. Provides a rationale for why the auditable events are deemed to be adequate to support after- the-fact investigations of security incidents; and  d. Determines that the following events are to be audited within the information system: [Assignment: organization-defined audited events (the subset of the auditable events defined in AU-2 a.) along with the frequency of (or situation requiring) auditing for each identified event].	The organization:  a. Determines that the information system is capable of auditing the following events: [Assignment: organization-defined auditable events];  b. Coordinates the security audit function with other organizational entities requiring audit- related information to enhance mutual support and to help guide the selection of auditable events;  c. Provides a rationale for why the auditable events are deemed to be adequate to support after- the-fact investigations of security incidents; and  d. Determines that the following events are to be audited within the information system: [Assignment: organization-defined audited events (the subset of the auditable events defined in AU-2 a.) along with the frequency of (or situation requiring) auditing for each identified event].
1	All configuration rules that allow traffic to flow through network devices should be documented in a configuration management system with a specific business reason for each rule, a specific individual’s name responsible for that business need, and an expected duration of the need.	Network environments and virtual instances shall be designed and configured to restrict and monitor traffic between trusted and untrusted connections. These configurations shall be reviewed at least annually, and supported by a documented justification for use for all allowed services, protocols, ports, and by compensating controls.
1	Ensure that all users with administrative account access use a dedicated or secondary account for elevated activities. This account should only be used for administrative activities and not internet browsing, email, or similar activities.	Policies and procedures shall be established to store and manage identity information about every person who accesses IT infrastructure and to determine their level of access. Policies shall also be developed to control access to network resources based on user identity.
1	Information systems shall be regularly reviewed for compliance with the organization's information security policies and standards.	The BYOD policy includes clarifying language for the expectation of privacy, requirements for litigation, e-discovery, and legal holds. The BYOD policy shall clearly state the expectations regarding the loss of non-company data in the case that a wipe of the device is required.
0	The information system implements cryptographic mechanisms to protect the confidentiality and integrity of remote access sessions.	The information system implements cryptographic mechanisms to protect the confidentiality and integrity of remote access sessions.
1	All relevant information security requirements shall be established and agreed with each supplier that may access, process, store, communicate, or provide IT infrastructure components for, the organization's information.	External business partners shall adhere to the same policies and procedures for change management, release, and testing as internal developers within the organization (e.g., ITIL service management processes).
1	Networks shall be managed and controlled in order to protect the organization from threats and to maintain security for the systems and applications using the network, including information in transit.	Network architecture diagrams shall clearly identify high-risk environments and data flows that may have legal compliance impacts. Technical measures shall be implemented and shall apply defense-in-depth techniques (e.g., deep packet analysis, traffic throttling, and black-holing) for detection and timely response to network-based attacks associated with anomalous ingress or egress traffic patterns (e.g., MAC spoofing and ARP poisoning attacks) and/or distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) attacks.
1	The organization:  a. Establishes a process for maintenance personnel authorization and maintains a list of authorized maintenance organizations or personnel;  b. Ensures that non-escorted personnel performing maintenance on the information system have required access authorizations; and  c. Designates organizational personnel with required access authorizations and technical competence to supervise the maintenance activities of personnel who do not possess the required access authorizations.	Physical access to information assets and functions by users and support personnel shall be restricted.
0	The organization develops, documents, and implements a configuration management plan for the information system that:  a. Addresses roles, responsibilities, and configuration management processes and procedures;  b. Establishes a process for identifying configuration items throughout the system development life cycle and for managing the configuration of the configuration items;  c. Defines the configuration items for the information system and places the configuration items under configuration management; and  d. Protects the configuration management plan from unauthorized disclosure and modification.	Data and objects containing data shall be assigned a classification by the data owner based on data type, value, sensitivity, and criticality to the organization.
1	Acceptance criteria for new information systems, upgrades, and new versions shall be established and suitable tests of the system(s) carried out during development and prior to acceptance to maintain security.	Policies and procedures shall be established for managing the risks associated with applying changes to:  • Business-critical or customer (tenant)-impacting (physical and virtual) applications and system-system interface (API) designs and configurations.  • Infrastructure network and systems components. Technical measures shall be implemented to provide assurance that all changes directly correspond to a registered change request, business-critical or customer (tenant), and/or authorization by, the customer (tenant) as per agreement (SLA) prior to deployment.
0	The organization:  a. Develops, documents, and disseminates to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]:    1. A contingency planning policy that addresses purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment, coordination among organizational entities, and compliance; and    2. Procedures to facilitate the implementation of the contingency planning policy and associated contingency planning controls; and  b. Reviews and updates the current:    1. Contingency planning policy [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and    2. Contingency planning procedures [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	An Information Security Management Program (ISMP) shall be developed, documented, approved, and implemented that includes administrative, technical, and physical safeguards to protect assets and data from loss, misuse, unauthorized access, disclosure, alteration, and destruction. The security program shall include, but not be limited to, the following areas insofar as they relate to the characteristics of the business:  • Risk management  • Security policy  • Organization of information security  • Asset management  • Human resources security  • Physical and environmental security  • Communications and operations management  • Access control  • Information systems acquisition, development, and maintenance
0	Ensure that all system data is automatically backed up on a regular basis.	Changes to mobile device operating systems, patch levels, and/or applications shall be managed through the company's change management processes.
1	The organization:  a. Determines the types of changes to the information system that are configuration-controlled;  b. Reviews proposed configuration-controlled changes to the information system and approves or disapproves such changes with explicit consideration for security impact analyses;  c. Documents configuration change decisions associated with the information system;  d. Implements approved configuration-controlled changes to the information system;  e. Retains records of configuration-controlled changes to the information system for [Assignment: organization-defined time period];  f. Audits and reviews activities associated with configuration-controlled changes to the information system; and  g. Coordinates and provides oversight for configuration change control activities through [Assignment: organization-defined configuration change control element (e.g., committee, board] that convenes [Selection (one or more): [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; [Assignment: organization-defined configuration change conditions]].	Baseline security requirements shall be established for developed or acquired, organizationally-owned or managed, physical or virtual, applications and infrastructure system and network components that comply with applicable legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations. Deviations from standard baseline configurations must be authorized following change management policies and procedures prior to deployment, provisioning, or use. Compliance with security baseline requirements must be reassessed at least annually unless an alternate frequency has been established and authorized based on business needs.
0	Additional requirement for service providers only: Maintain documentation of quarterly review process to include:  Documenting results of the reviews  Review and sign-off of results by personnel assigned responsibility for the PCI DSS compliance program	Additional requirement for service providers only: Maintain documentation of quarterly review process to include:  Documenting results of the reviews  Review and sign-off of results by personnel assigned responsibility for the PCI DSS compliance program
0	Procedures for handling assets shall be developed and implemented in accordance with the information classification scheme adopted by the organization.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to protect wireless network environments, including the following:  • Perimeter firewalls implemented and configured to restrict unauthorized traffic  • Security settings enabled with strong encryption for authentication and transmission, replacing vendor default settings (e.g., encryption keys, passwords, and SNMP community strings)  • User access to wireless network devices restricted to authorized personnel  • The capability to detect the presence of unauthorized (rogue) wireless network devices for a timely disconnect from the network
1	Ensure that all backups have at least one backup destination that is not continuously addressable through operating system calls.	The mobile device policy shall require the BYOD user to perform backups of data, prohibit the usage of unapproved application stores, and require the use of anti-malware software (where supported).
0	Keep cardholder data storage to a minimum by implementing data retention and disposal policies, procedures and processes that include at least the following for all cardholder data (CHD) storage:  Limiting data storage amount and retention time to that which is required for legal, regulatory, and/or business requirements  Specific retention requirements for cardholder data  Processes for secure deletion of data when no longer needed  A quarterly process for identifying and securely deleting stored cardholder data that exceeds defined retention.PCI DSS Requirements	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to prevent the execution of unauthorized mobile code, defined as software transferred between systems over a trusted or untrusted network and executed on a local system without explicit installation or execution by the recipient, on organizationally-owned or managed user end-point devices (e.g., issued workstations, laptops, and mobile devices) and IT infrastructure network and systems components.
1	• Will the cloud provider use other companies whose infrastructure is located outside that of the cloud provider?	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to inventory, document, and maintain data flows for data that is resident (permanently or temporarily) within the service's geographically distributed (physical and virtual) applications and infrastructure network and systems components and/or shared with other third parties to ascertain any regulatory, statutory, or supply chain agreement (SLA) compliance impact, and to address any other business risks associated with the data. Upon request, provider shall inform customer (tenant) of compliance impact and risk, especially if customer data is used as part of the services.
1	• What methods do you use to prevent damage from a fire, flood, earthquake, etc? o In the event of a disaster, what additional security measures are put in place to protect physical access? o Both at the primary as well as at the secondary sites? 	To reduce the risks from environmental threats, hazards, and opportunities for unauthorized access, equipment shall be kept away from locations subject to high probability environmental risks and supplemented by redundant equipment located at a reasonable distance.
0	The organization establishes alternate telecommunications services including necessary agreements to permit the resumption of [Assignment: organization-defined information system operations] for essential missions and business functions within [Assignment: organization- defined time period] when the primary telecommunications capabilities are unavailable at either the primary or alternate processing or storage sites.	Aligned with the enterprise-wide framework, formal risk assessments shall be performed at least annually or at planned intervals, (and in conjunction with any changes to information systems) to determine the likelihood and impact of all identified risks using qualitative and quantitative methods. The likelihood and impact associated with inherent and residual risk shall be determined independently, considering all risk categories (e.g., audit results, threat and vulnerability analysis, and regulatory compliance).
1	Visitors are authorized before entering, and escorted at all times within, areas where cardholder data is processed or maintained.	Ingress and egress points such as service areas and other points where unauthorized personnel may enter the premises shall be monitored, controlled and, if possible, isolated from data storage and processing facilities to prevent unauthorized data corruption, compromise, and loss.
1	Managers shall regularly review the compliance of information processing and procedures within their area of responsibility with the appropriate security policies, standards and any other security requirements.	All structured and unstructured data shall be available to the customer and provided to them upon request in an industry-standard format (e.g., .doc, .xls, .pdf, logs, and flat files).
0	Develop configuration standards for all system components. Assure that these standards address all known security vulnerabilities and are consistent with industry-accepted system hardening standards.	The mobile device policy shall require the use of encryption either for the entire device or for data identified as sensitive on all mobile devices, and shall be enforced through technology controls.
1	The organization:  a. Develops, documents, and disseminates to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]:    1. A personnel security policy that addresses purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment, coordination among organizational entities, and compliance; and    2. Procedures to facilitate the implementation of the personnel security policy and associated personnel security controls; and  b. Reviews and updates the current:    1. Personnel security policy [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and    2. Personnel security procedures [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	Information security policies and procedures shall be established and made readily available for review by all impacted personnel and external business relationships. Information security policies must be authorized by the organization's business leadership (or other accountable business role or function) and supported by a strategic business plan and an information security management program inclusive of defined information security roles and responsibilities for business leadership.
0	All relevant legislative statutory, regulatory, contractual requirements and the organization's approach to meet these requirements shall be explicitly identified, documented and kept up to date for each information system and the organization.	Providers shall review the risk management and governance processes of their partners so that practices are consistent and aligned to account for risks inherited from other members of that partner's cloud supply chain.
1	Enable only necessary services, protocols, daemons, etc., as required for the function of the system.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to restrict the installation of unauthorized software on organizationally-owned or managed user end-point devices (e.g., issued workstations, laptops, and mobile devices) and IT infrastructure network and systems components.
0	To provide management direction and support for information security in accordance with business requirements and relevant laws and regulations.	Data center utilities services and environmental conditions (e.g., water, power, temperature and humidity controls, telecommunications, and internet connectivity) shall be secured, monitored, maintained, and tested for continual effectiveness at planned intervals to ensure protection from unauthorized interception or damage, and designed with automated fail-over or other redundancies in the event of planned or unplanned disruptions.
1	The information system automatically audits account creation, modification, enabling, disabling, and removal actions, and notifies [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles].	User access shall be authorized and revalidated for entitlement appropriateness, at planned intervals, by the organization's business leadership or other accountable business role or function supported by evidence to demonstrate the organization is adhering to the rule of least privilege based on job function. For identified access violations, remediation must follow established user access policies and procedures.
0	Insecure cryptographic storage	Policies and procedures shall be established and maintained in support of data security to include (confidentiality, integrity, and availability) across multiple system interfaces, jurisdictions, and business functions to prevent improper disclosure, alteration, or destruction.
1	o Does the provider carry out help desk tests? For example: o Impersonation tests (is the person at the end of the phone requesting a password reset, really who they say they are?) or so called ‘social engineering’ attacks. 	Business continuity and security incident response plans shall be subject to testing at planned intervals or upon significant organizational or environmental changes. Incident response plans shall involve impacted customers (tenant) and other business relationships that represent critical intra-supply chain business process dependencies.
0	Ensure that backups are properly protected via physical security or encryption when they are stored, as well as when they are moved across the network. This includes remote backups and cloud services.	Anti-malware awareness training, specific to mobile devices, shall be included in the provider's information security awareness training.
0	Information involved in application services passing over public networks shall be protected from fraudulent activity, contract dispute and unauthorized disclosure and modification.	Business continuity and security incident response plans shall be subject to testing at planned intervals or upon significant organizational or environmental changes. Incident response plans shall involve impacted customers (tenant) and other business relationships that represent critical intra-supply chain business process dependencies.
0	Establish an access control system(s) for systems components that restricts access based on a user’s need to know, and is set to “deny all” unless specifically allowed.	Secured and encrypted communication channels shall be used when migrating physical servers, applications, or data to virtualized servers and, where possible, shall use a network segregated from production-level networks for such migrations.
0	Maintain an inventory of all accounts organized by authentication system.	The provider shall use an industry-recognized virtualization platform and standard virtualization formats (e.g., OVF) to help ensure interoperability, and shall have documented custom changes made to any hypervisor in use and all solution-specific virtualization hooks available for customer review.
0	Managers shall regularly review the compliance of information processing and procedures within their area of responsibility with the appropriate security policies, standards and any other security requirements.	Pursuant to local laws, regulations, ethics, and contractual constraints, all employment candidates, contractors, and third parties shall be subject to background verification proportional to the data classification to be accessed, the business requirements, and acceptable risk.
1	The organization provides basic security awareness training to information system users (including managers, senior executives, and contractors):  a. As part of initial training for new users;  b. When required by information system changes; and  c. [Assignment: organization-defined frequency] thereafter.	The BYOD policy and supporting awareness training clearly states the approved applications, application stores, and application extensions and plugins that may be used for BYOD usage.
0	o Does the provider collect incident metrics and indicators (ie,. number of detected or reported incidents per months, number of incidents caused by the cloud provider’s subcontractors and the total number of such incidents, average time to respond and to resolve, etc)?). o Which of these does the provider make publicly available (NB not all incident reporting data can be made public since it may compromise customer confidentiality and reveal security critical information)??) 	Automated equipment identification shall be used as a method of connection authentication. Location-aware technologies may be used to validate connection authentication integrity based on known equipment location.
0	Secure areas shall be protected by appropriate entry controls to ensure that only authorized personnel are allowed access.	There shall be a defined and documented method for determining the impact of any disruption to the organization (cloud provider, cloud consumer) that must incorporate the following:  • Identify critical products and services  • Identify all dependencies, including processes, applications, business partners, and third party service providers  • Understand threats to critical products and services  • Determine impacts resulting from planned or unplanned disruptions and how these vary over time  • Establish the maximum tolerable period for disruption  • Establish priorities for recovery  • Establish recovery time objectives for resumption of critical products and services within their maximum tolerable period of disruption  • Estimate the resources required for resumption
0	• How do you manage access to customer system images – and ensure that the authentication and cryptographic keys are not contained within in them?	Data and objects containing data shall be assigned a classification by the data owner based on data type, value, sensitivity, and criticality to the organization.
0	The information system:  a. Enforces a limit of [Assignment: organization-defined number] consecutive invalid logon attempts by a user during a [Assignment: organization-defined time period]; and  b. Automatically [Selection: locks the account/node for an [Assignment: organization-defined time period]; locks the account/node until released by an administrator; delays next logon prompt according to [Assignment: organization-defined delay algorithm]] when the maximum number of unsuccessful attempts is exceeded.	The information system:  a. Enforces a limit of [Assignment: organization-defined number] consecutive invalid logon attempts by a user during a [Assignment: organization-defined time period]; and  b. Automatically [Selection: locks the account/node for an [Assignment: organization-defined time period]; locks the account/node until released by an administrator; delays next logon prompt according to [Assignment: organization-defined delay algorithm]] when the maximum number of unsuccessful attempts is exceeded.
0	Use either video cameras or access control mechanisms (or both) to monitor individual physical access to sensitive areas. Review collected data and correlate with other entries. Store for at least three months, unless otherwise restricted by law.	The identification, assessment, and prioritization of risks posed by business processes requiring third-party access to the organization's information systems and data shall be followed by coordinated application of resources to minimize, monitor, and measure likelihood and impact of unauthorized or inappropriate access. Compensating controls derived from the risk analysis shall be implemented prior to provisioning access.
0	Changes to systems within the development lifecycle shall be controlled by the use of formal change control procedures.	A formal disciplinary or sanction policy shall be established for employees who have violated security policies and procedures. Employees shall be made aware of what action might be taken in the event of a violation, and disciplinary measures must be stated in the policies and procedures.
1	The organization develops alternate processing site agreements that contain priority-of-service provisions in accordance with organizational availability requirements (including recovery time objectives).	Physical protection against damage from natural causes and disasters, as well as deliberate attacks, including fire, flood, atmospheric electrical discharge, solar induced geomagnetic storm, wind, earthquake, tsunami, explosion, nuclear accident, volcanic activity, biological hazard, civil unrest, mudslide, tectonic activity, and other forms of natural or man-made disaster shall be anticipated, designed, and have countermeasures applied.
1	A visitor log is used to maintain a physical audit trail of visitor activity to the facility as well as computer rooms and data centers where cardholder data is stored or transmitted.	Ingress and egress points such as service areas and other points where unauthorized personnel may enter the premises shall be monitored, controlled and, if possible, isolated from data storage and processing facilities to prevent unauthorized data corruption, compromise, and loss.
0	• Are all utilities (electricity, water, etc) capable of supporting your environment? o How often is this re-evaluated and tested? 	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for defining allowances and conditions for permitting usage of organizationally-owned or managed user end-point devices (e.g., issued workstations, laptops, and mobile devices) and IT infrastructure network and systems components. Additionally, defining allowances and conditions to permit usage of personal mobile devices and associated applications with access to corporate resources (i.e., BYOD) shall be considered and incorporated as appropriate.
1	For wireless environments connected to the cardholder data environment or transmitting cardholder data, change ALL wireless vendor defaults at installation, including but not limited to default wireless encryption keys, passwords, and SNMP community strings.	Data related to electronic commerce (ecommerce) that traverses public networks shall be appropriately classified and protected from fraudulent activity, unauthorized disclosure, or modification in such a manner to prevent contract dispute and compromise of data.
0	Subscribe to URL categorization services to ensure that they are up-to-date with the most recent website category definitions available. Uncategorized sites shall be blocked by default.	Proper forensic procedures, including chain of custody, are required for the presentation of evidence to support potential legal action subject to the relevant jurisdiction after an information security incident. Upon notification, customers and/or other external business partners impacted by a security breach shall be given the opportunity to participate as is legally permissible in the forensic investigation.
1	All individual user accesses to cardholder data	Higher levels of assurance are required for protection, retention, and lifecycle management of audit logs, adhering to applicable legal, statutory or regulatory compliance obligations and providing unique user access accountability to detect potentially suspicious network behaviors and/or file integrity anomalies, and to support forensic investigative capabilities in the event of a security breach.
1	Configure system security parameters to prevent misuse.	Baseline security requirements shall be established for developed or acquired, organizationally-owned or managed, physical or virtual, applications and infrastructure system and network components that comply with applicable legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations. Deviations from standard baseline configurations must be authorized following change management policies and procedures prior to deployment, provisioning, or use. Compliance with security baseline requirements must be reassessed at least annually unless an alternate frequency has been established and authorized based on business needs.
0	When operating platforms are changed, business critical applications shall be reviewed and tested to ensure there is no adverse impact on organizational operations or security.	User access policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for ensuring appropriate identity, entitlement, and access management for all internal corporate and customer (tenant) users with access to data and organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) application interfaces and infrastructure network and systems components. These policies, procedures, processes, and measures must incorporate the following:  • Procedures, supporting roles, and responsibilities for provisioning and de-provisioning user account entitlements following the rule of least privilege based on job function (e.g., internal employee and contingent staff personnel changes, customer-controlled access, suppliers' business relationships, or other third-party business relationships)  • Business case considerations for higher levels of assurance and multi-factor authentication secrets (e.g., management interfaces, key generation, remote access, segregation of duties, emergency access, large-scale provisioning or geographically-distributed deployments, and personnel redundancy for critical systems)  • Access segmentation to sessions and data in multi-tenant architectures by any third party (e.g., provider and/or other customer (tenant))  • Identity trust verification and service-to-service application (API) and information processing interoperability (e.g., SSO and federation)  • Account credential lifecycle management from instantiation through revocation  • Account credential and/or identity store minimization or re-use when feasible  • Authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules for access to data and sessions (e.g., encryption and strong/multi-factor, expireable, non-shared authentication secrets)  • Permissions and supporting capabilities for customer (tenant) controls over authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules for access to data and sessions  • Adherence to applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance requirements
1	A formal user access provisioning process shall be implemented to assign or revoke access rights for all user types to all systems and services.	Policies and procedures are established for permissible storage and access of identities used for authentication to ensure identities are only accessible based on rules of least privilege and replication limitation only to users explicitly defined as business necessary.
1	Users shall only be provided with access to the network and network services that they have been specifically authorized to use.	Utility programs capable of potentially overriding system, object, network, virtual machine, and application controls shall be restricted.
0	Changes to systems within the development lifecycle shall be controlled by the use of formal change control procedures.	The BYOD policy shall define the device and eligibility requirements to allow for BYOD usage.
0	Ensure that security policies and operational procedures for identification and authentication are documented, in use, and known to all affected parties.	The provider shall use open and published APIs to ensure support for interoperability between components and to facilitate migrating applications.
1	• What levels of isolation are used? o for virtual machines, physical machines, network, storage (e.g., storage area networks), management networks and management support systems, etc. 	Multi-tenant organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) applications, and infrastructure system and network components, shall be designed, developed, deployed, and configured such that provider and customer (tenant) user access is appropriately segmented from other tenant users, based on the following considerations:  • Established policies and procedures  • Isolation of business critical assets and/or sensitive user data, and sessions that mandate stronger internal controls and high levels of assurance  • Compliance with legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations
0	The organization includes in the rules of behavior, explicit restrictions on the use of social media/networking sites and posting organizational information on public websites.	The organization includes in the rules of behavior, explicit restrictions on the use of social media/networking sites and posting organizational information on public websites.
0	Information security events shall be reported through appropriate management channels as quickly as possible.	All structured and unstructured data shall be available to the customer and provided to them upon request in an industry-standard format (e.g., .doc, .xls, .pdf, logs, and flat files).
0	The organization:  a. Develops an incident response plan that:    1. Provides the organization with a roadmap for implementing its incident response capability;    2. Describes the structure and organization of the incident response capability;    3. Provides a high-level approach for how the incident response capability fits into the overall organization;    4. Meets the unique requirements of the organization, which relate to mission, size, structure, and functions;    5. Defines reportable incidents;    6. Provides metrics for measuring the incident response capability within the organization;    7. Defines the resources and management support needed to effectively maintain and mature an incident response capability; and    8. Is reviewed and approved by [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles];  b. Distributes copies of the incident response plan to [Assignment: organization-defined incident response personnel (identified by name and/or by role) and organizational elements];  c. Reviews the incident response plan [Assignment: organization-defined frequency];  d. Updates the incident response plan to address system/organizational changes or problems encountered during plan implementation, execution, or testing;   e. Communicates incident response plan changes to [Assignment: organization-defined incident response personnel (identified by name and/or by role) and organizational elements]; and f. Protects the incident response plan from unauthorized disclosure and modification.	Policies and procedures shall be established to store and manage identity information about every person who accesses IT infrastructure and to determine their level of access. Policies shall also be developed to control access to network resources based on user identity.
1	When operating platforms are changed, business critical applications shall be reviewed and tested to ensure there is no adverse impact on organizational operations or security.	The provider shall use secure (e.g., non-clear text and authenticated) standardized network protocols for the import and export of data and to manage the service, and shall make available a document to consumers (tenants) detailing the relevant interoperability and portability standards that are involved.
0	Ensure that unauthorized assets are either removed from the network, quarantined or the inventory is updated in a timely manner.	Ensure that unauthorized assets are either removed from the network, quarantined or the inventory is updated in a timely manner.
0	Ensure that security policies and operational procedures for restricting access to cardholder data are documented, in use, and known to all affected parties.	Business-critical or customer (tenant) impacting (physical and virtual) application and system-system interface (API) designs and configurations, and infrastructure network and systems components, shall be designed, developed, and deployed in accordance with mutually agreed-upon service and capacity-level expectations, as well as IT governance and service management policies and procedures.
0	o Is there a list of assets that the customer has used over a specific period of time?	Policies and procedures shall be established and maintained in support of data security to include (confidentiality, integrity, and availability) across multiple system interfaces, jurisdictions, and business functions to prevent improper disclosure, alteration, or destruction.
1	A formal policy shall be in place, and appropriate security measures shall be adopted to protect against the risks of using mobile computing and communication devices.	The company shall have a documented policy prohibiting the installation of non-approved applications or approved applications not obtained through a pre-identified application store.
0	Management shall require employees, and where applicable, contractors and third-party users, to apply security in accordance with established policies and procedures of the organization.	Keys must have identifiable owners (binding keys to identities) and there shall be key management policies.
0	Access to program source code shall be restricted.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for appropriate IT governance and service management to ensure appropriate planning, delivery, and support of the organization's IT capabilities supporting business functions, workforce, and/or customers based on industry acceptable standards (i.e., ITIL v4 and COBIT 5). Additionally, policies and procedures shall include defined roles and responsibilities supported by regular workforce training.
1	The organization:  a. Develops, documents, and disseminates to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]:    1. An identification and authentication policy that addresses purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment, coordination among organizational entities, and compliance; and    2. Procedures to facilitate the implementation of the identification and authentication policy and associated identification and authentication controls; and  b. Reviews and updates the current:    1. Identification and authentication policy [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and    2. Identification and authentication procedures [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	Information security policies and procedures shall be established and made readily available for review by all impacted personnel and external business relationships. Information security policies must be authorized by the organization's business leadership (or other accountable business role or function) and supported by a strategic business plan and an information security management program inclusive of defined information security roles and responsibilities for business leadership.
0	Screen potential personnel prior to hire to minimize the risk of attacks from internal sources. (Examples of background checks include previous employment history, criminal record, credit history, and reference checks.)	The BYOD policy includes clarifying language for the expectation of privacy, requirements for litigation, e-discovery, and legal holds. The BYOD policy shall clearly state the expectations regarding the loss of non-company data in the case that a wipe of the device is required.
0	All relevant legislative statutory, regulatory, contractual requirements and the organization's approach to meet these requirements shall be explicitly identified, documented and kept up to date for each information system and the organization.	Platform and data-appropriate encryption (e.g., AES-256) in open/validated formats and standard algorithms shall be required. Keys shall not be stored in the cloud (i.e., at the cloud provider in question), but maintained by the cloud consumer or trusted key management provider. Key management and key usage shall be separated duties.
1	Visitors are identified and given a badge or other identification that expires and that visibly distinguishes the visitors from onsite personnel.	Physical access to information assets and functions by users and support personnel shall be restricted.
1	An access control policy shall be established, documented and reviewed based on business and information security requirements.	Production and non-production environments shall be separated to prevent unauthorized access or changes to information assets. Separation of the environments may include: stateful inspection firewalls, domain/realm authentication sources, and clear segregation of duties for personnel accessing these environments as part of their job duties.
1	Managers shall regularly review the compliance of information processing and procedures within their area of responsibility with the appropriate security policies, standards and any other security requirements.	The mobile device policy shall require the BYOD user to perform backups of data, prohibit the usage of unapproved application stores, and require the use of anti-malware software (where supported).
1	Ensure that security policies and operational procedures for security monitoring and testing are documented, in use, and known to all affected parties.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for equipment maintenance ensuring continuity and availability of operations and support personnel.
0	Change control procedures must include the following:	Risk assessment results shall include updates to security policies, procedures, standards, and controls to ensure that they remain relevant and effective.
1	Deploy a change-detection mechanism (for example, file-integrity monitoring tools) to alert personnel to unauthorized modification (including changes, additions, and deletions) of critical system files, configuration files, or content files; and configure the software to perform critical file comparisons at least weekly.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to restrict the installation of unauthorized software on organizationally-owned or managed user end-point devices (e.g., issued workstations, laptops, and mobile devices) and IT infrastructure network and systems components.
0	Managers shall regularly review the compliance of information processing and procedures within their area of responsibility with the appropriate security policies, standards and any other security requirements.	The provider shall ensure the integrity of all virtual machine images at all times. Any changes made to virtual machine images must be logged and an alert raised regardless of their running state (e.g., dormant, off, or running). The results of a change or move of an image and the subsequent validation of the image's integrity must be immediately available to customers through electronic methods (e.g., portals or alerts).
1	Acceptance criteria for new information systems, upgrades, and new versions shall be established and suitable tests of the system(s) carried out during development and prior to acceptance to maintain security.	Organizations shall follow a defined quality change control and testing process (e.g., ITIL Service Management) with established baselines, testing, and release standards that focus on system availability, confidentiality, and integrity of systems and services.
1	The organization manages information system identifiers by:  a. Receiving authorization from [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles] to assign an individual, group, role, or device identifier;  b. Selecting an identifier that identifies an individual, group, role, or device;  c. Assigning the identifier to the intended individual, group, role, or device;  d. Preventing reuse of identifiers for [Assignment: organization-defined time period]; and  e. Disabling the identifier after [Assignment: organization-defined time period of inactivity].	Internal corporate or customer (tenant) user account credentials shall be restricted as per the following, ensuring appropriate identity, entitlement, and access management and in accordance with established policies and procedures:  • Identity trust verification and service-to-service application (API) and information processing interoperability (e.g., SSO and Federation)  • Account credential lifecycle management from instantiation through revocation  • Account credential and/or identity store minimization or re-use when feasible  • Adherence to industry acceptable and/or regulatory compliant authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules (e.g., strong/multi-factor, expireable, non-shared authentication secrets)
1	• What data storage and protection controls apply to the user directory (eg, AD, LDAP) and access to it?	Risk assessments associated with data governance requirements shall be conducted at planned intervals and shall consider the following:  • Awareness of where sensitive data is stored and transmitted across applications, databases, servers, and network infrastructure  • Compliance with defined retention periods and end-of-life disposal requirements  • Data classification and protection from unauthorized use, access, loss, destruction, and falsification
1	Management shall require employees, and where applicable, contractors and third-party users, to apply security in accordance with established policies and procedures of the organization.	Managers are responsible for maintaining awareness of, and complying with, security policies, procedures, and standards that are relevant to their area of responsibility.
1	Ensure that security policies and operational procedures for identification and authentication are documented, in use, and known to all affected parties.	Policies and procedures shall be established to store and manage identity information about every person who accesses IT infrastructure and to determine their level of access. Policies shall also be developed to control access to network resources based on user identity.
0	Utilize centrally managed anti-malware software to continuously monitor and defend each of the organization’s workstations and servers.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to ensure the development and/or acquisition of new data, physical or virtual applications, infrastructure network, and systems components, or any corporate, operations and/or data center facilities have been pre-authorized by the organization's business leadership or other accountable business role or function.
1	• Do you have stand-alone generators in the event of a power failure? o For how long can they run? o Are there adequate fuel supplies? o Are there failover generators? o How often do you check UPS equipment? o How often do you check your generators? o Do you have multiple power suppliers? 	Protection measures shall be put into place to react to natural and man-made threats based upon a geographically-specific business impact assessment.
1	Procedures for monitoring use of information processing systems and facilities shall be established to check for use and effectiveness of implemented controls. The results of the monitoring activities shall be reviewed regularly.	Higher levels of assurance are required for protection, retention, and lifecycle management of audit logs, adhering to applicable legal, statutory or regulatory compliance obligations and providing unique user access accountability to detect potentially suspicious network behaviors and/or file integrity anomalies, and to support forensic investigative capabilities in the event of a security breach.
1	Deploy system configuration management tools that will automatically enforce and redeploy configuration settings to systems at regularly scheduled intervals.	The company shall have a documented application validation process to test for mobile device, operating system, and application compatibility issues.
0	The organization establishes and manages cryptographic keys for required cryptography employed within the information system in accordance with [Assignment: organization-defined requirements for key generation, distribution, storage, access, and destruction].	The provider shall perform annual internal assessments of conformance to, and effectiveness of, its policies, procedures, and supporting measures and metrics.
0	Implement physical and/or logical controls to restrict access to publicly accessible network jacks.	The organization's business leadership (or other accountable business role or function) shall review the information security policy at planned intervals or as a result of changes to the organization to ensure its continuing alignment with the security strategy, effectiveness, accuracy, relevance, and applicability to legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance obligations.
0	The availability of adequate capacity and resources shall be planned, prepared, and managed to deliver the required system performance. Projections of future capacity requirements shall be made to mitigate the risk of system overload.	Ingress and egress points such as service areas and other points where unauthorized personnel may enter the premises shall be monitored, controlled and, if possible, isolated from data storage and processing facilities to prevent unauthorized data corruption, compromise, and loss.
1	Modifications to software packages shall be discouraged, limited to necessary changes and all changes shall be strictly controlled.	Organizations shall follow a defined quality change control and testing process (e.g., ITIL Service Management) with established baselines, testing, and release standards that focus on system availability, confidentiality, and integrity of systems and services.
0	The organization obtains alternate telecommunications services to reduce the likelihood of sharing a single point of failure with primary telecommunications services. 	Information system documentation (e.g., administrator and user guides, and architecture diagrams) shall be made available to authorized personnel to ensure the following:  • Configuring, installing, and operating the information system  • Effectively using the system’s security features
1	Inactive sessions shall shut down after a defined period of inactivity.	BYOD and/or company-owned devices are configured to require an automatic lockout screen, and the requirement shall be enforced through technical controls.
0	Enable only necessary services, protocols, daemons, etc., as required for the function of the system.	The availability, quality, and adequate capacity and resources shall be planned, prepared, and measured to deliver the required system performance in accordance with legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations. Projections of future capacity requirements shall be made to mitigate the risk of system overload.
0	The organization employs automated mechanisms to increase the availability of incident response- related information and support.	Risks shall be mitigated to an acceptable level. Acceptance levels based on risk criteria shall be established and documented in accordance with reasonable resolution time frames and stakeholder approval.
0	Ensure that anti-virus mechanisms are actively running and cannot be disabled or altered by users, unless specifically authorized by management on a case-by-case basis for a limited time period.	Access to, and use of, audit tools that interact with the organization's information systems shall be appropriately segregated and access restricted to prevent inappropriate disclosure and tampering of log data.
1	The organization:  a. Separates [Assignment: organization-defined duties of individuals];  b. Documents separation of duties of individuals; and  c. Defines information system access authorizations to support separation of duties.	All data shall be designated with stewardship, with assigned responsibilities defined, documented, and communicated.
0	o Does the provider carry out vulnerability testing? How often?	Physical protection against damage from natural causes and disasters, as well as deliberate attacks, including fire, flood, atmospheric electrical discharge, solar induced geomagnetic storm, wind, earthquake, tsunami, explosion, nuclear accident, volcanic activity, biological hazard, civil unrest, mudslide, tectonic activity, and other forms of natural or man-made disaster shall be anticipated, designed, and have countermeasures applied.
0	Ensure network engineers use a dedicated machine for all administrative tasks or tasks requiring elevated access. This machine shall be segmented from the organization’s primary network and not be allowed Internet access. This machine shall not be used for reading email, composing documents, or surfing the Internet.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting processes and technical measures implemented, for timely detection of vulnerabilities within organizationally-owned or managed applications, infrastructure network and system components (e.g., network vulnerability assessment, penetration testing) to ensure the efficiency of implemented security controls. A risk-based model for prioritizing remediation of identified vulnerabilities shall be used. Changes shall be managed through a change management process for all vendor-supplied patches, configuration changes, or changes to the organization's internally developed software. Upon request, the provider informs customer (tenant) of policies and procedures and identified weaknesses especially if customer (tenant) data is used as part the service and/or customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of control.
0	Perform external penetration testing at least annually and after any significant infrastructure or application upgrade or modification (such as an operating system upgrade, a sub-network added to the environment, or a web server added to the environment).	All data shall be designated with stewardship, with assigned responsibilities defined, documented, and communicated.
0	Manage all network devices using multi-factor authentication and encrypted sessions.	Higher levels of assurance are required for protection, retention, and lifecycle management of audit logs, adhering to applicable legal, statutory or regulatory compliance obligations and providing unique user access accountability to detect potentially suspicious network behaviors and/or file integrity anomalies, and to support forensic investigative capabilities in the event of a security breach.
1	Equipment, information or software shall not be taken off-site without prior authorization.	Ingress and egress points such as service areas and other points where unauthorized personnel may enter the premises shall be monitored, controlled and, if possible, isolated from data storage and processing facilities to prevent unauthorized data corruption, compromise, and loss.
1	Ensure that backups are properly protected via physical security or encryption when they are stored, as well as when they are moved across the network. This includes remote backups and cloud services.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for the use of encryption protocols for protection of sensitive data in storage (e.g., file servers, databases, and end-user workstations), data in use (memory), and data in transmission (e.g., system interfaces, over public networks, and electronic messaging) as per applicable legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations.
1	The organization:  a. Assigns a risk designation to all organizational positions;  b. Establishes screening criteria for individuals filling those positions; and  c. Reviews and updates position risk designations [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	Policies and procedures shall be established to store and manage identity information about every person who accesses IT infrastructure and to determine their level of access. Policies shall also be developed to control access to network resources based on user identity.
0	To present to data subjects, where appropriate and feasible, the choice not to allow the processing of their PII, to refuse or withdraw consent or to oppose a specific type of processing, and to explain to data subjects the implications of granting or refusing consent.	The provider shall use secure (e.g., non-clear text and authenticated) standardized network protocols for the import and export of data and to manage the service, and shall make available a document to consumers (tenants) detailing the relevant interoperability and portability standards that are involved.
1	Establish an access control system(s) for systems components that restricts access based on a user’s need to know, and is set to “deny all” unless specifically allowed.	Physical protection against damage from natural causes and disasters, as well as deliberate attacks, including fire, flood, atmospheric electrical discharge, solar induced geomagnetic storm, wind, earthquake, tsunami, explosion, nuclear accident, volcanic activity, biological hazard, civil unrest, mudslide, tectonic activity, and other forms of natural or man-made disaster shall be anticipated, designed, and have countermeasures applied.
0	Information systems shall be regularly reviewed for compliance with the organization's information security policies and standards.	Data related to electronic commerce (ecommerce) that traverses public networks shall be appropriately classified and protected from fraudulent activity, unauthorized disclosure, or modification in such a manner to prevent contract dispute and compromise of data.
1	Managers shall regularly review the compliance of information processing and procedures within their area of responsibility with the appropriate security policies, standards and any other security requirements.	A centralized, mobile device management solution shall be deployed to all mobile devices permitted to store, transmit, or process customer data.
1	The information security related requirements shall be included in the requirements for new information systems or enhancements to existing information systems.	External business partners shall adhere to the same policies and procedures for change management, release, and testing as internal developers within the organization (e.g., ITIL service management processes).
0	Ensure network engineers use a dedicated machine for all administrative tasks or tasks requiring elevated access. This machine shall be segmented from the organization’s primary network and not be allowed Internet access. This machine shall not be used for reading email, composing documents, or surfing the Internet.	Production and non-production environments shall be separated to prevent unauthorized access or changes to information assets. Separation of the environments may include: stateful inspection firewalls, domain/realm authentication sources, and clear segregation of duties for personnel accessing these environments as part of their job duties.
1	• Is the hardened virtual image protected from unauthorized access?	User access policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for ensuring appropriate identity, entitlement, and access management for all internal corporate and customer (tenant) users with access to data and organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) application interfaces and infrastructure network and systems components. These policies, procedures, processes, and measures must incorporate the following:  • Procedures, supporting roles, and responsibilities for provisioning and de-provisioning user account entitlements following the rule of least privilege based on job function (e.g., internal employee and contingent staff personnel changes, customer-controlled access, suppliers' business relationships, or other third-party business relationships)  • Business case considerations for higher levels of assurance and multi-factor authentication secrets (e.g., management interfaces, key generation, remote access, segregation of duties, emergency access, large-scale provisioning or geographically-distributed deployments, and personnel redundancy for critical systems)  • Access segmentation to sessions and data in multi-tenant architectures by any third party (e.g., provider and/or other customer (tenant))  • Identity trust verification and service-to-service application (API) and information processing interoperability (e.g., SSO and federation)  • Account credential lifecycle management from instantiation through revocation  • Account credential and/or identity store minimization or re-use when feasible  • Authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules for access to data and sessions (e.g., encryption and strong/multi-factor, expireable, non-shared authentication secrets)  • Permissions and supporting capabilities for customer (tenant) controls over authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules for access to data and sessions  • Adherence to applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance requirements
0	• What levels of isolation are used? o for virtual machines, physical machines, network, storage (e.g., storage area networks), management networks and management support systems, etc. 	Mobile devices connecting to corporate networks, or storing and accessing company information, shall allow for remote software version/patch validation. All mobile devices shall have the latest available security-related patches installed upon general release by the device manufacturer or carrier and authorized IT personnel shall be able to perform these updates remotely.
1	The organization explicitly authorizes access to [Assignment: organization-defined security functions (deployed in hardware, software, and firmware) and security-relevant information].	Access to, and use of, audit tools that interact with the organization's information systems shall be appropriately segregated and access restricted to prevent inappropriate disclosure and tampering of log data.
1	Records shall be protected from loss, destruction, falsification, unauthorized access and unauthorized release, in accordance with legislator^ regulatory, contractual and business requirements.	Organizations shall create and maintain a control framework which captures standards, regulatory, legal, and statutory requirements relevant for their business needs. The control framework shall be reviewed at least annually to ensure changes that could affect the business processes are reflected.
1	Information security events shall be reported through appropriate communications channels as quickly as possible. All employees, contractors and third-party users shall be made aware of their responsibility to report any information security events as quickly as possible.	The provider shall make security incident information available to all affected customers and providers periodically through electronic methods (e.g., portals).
0	Disable wireless access on devices that do not have a business purpose for wireless access.	Policies and procedures shall be established with supporting business processes and technical measures implemented for the secure disposal and complete removal of data from all storage media, ensuring data is not recoverable by any computer forensic means.
0	Incorporate multi-factor authentication for all non-console access into the CDE for personnel with administrative access.	The mobile device policy shall require the use of encryption either for the entire device or for data identified as sensitive on all mobile devices, and shall be enforced through technology controls.
1	Information systems shall be regularly reviewed for compliance with the organization's information security policies and standards.	The mobile device policy shall require the use of encryption either for the entire device or for data identified as sensitive on all mobile devices, and shall be enforced through technology controls.
1	All relevant legislative statutory, regulatory, contractual requirements and the organization's approach to meet these requirements shall be explicitly identified, documented and kept up to date for each information system and the organization.	The BYOD policy includes clarifying language for the expectation of privacy, requirements for litigation, e-discovery, and legal holds. The BYOD policy shall clearly state the expectations regarding the loss of non-company data in the case that a wipe of the device is required.
1	Utilize application whitelisting technology on all assets to ensure that only authorized software executes and all unauthorized software is blocked from executing on assets.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to restrict the installation of unauthorized software on organizationally-owned or managed user end-point devices (e.g., issued workstations, laptops, and mobile devices) and IT infrastructure network and systems components.
1	The organization: (a) Establishes and administers privileged user accounts in accordance with a role-based access scheme that organizes allowed information system access and privileges into roles; (b) Monitors privileged role assignments; and (c) Takes [Assignment: organization-defined actions] when privileged role assignments are no longer appropriate.	User access shall be authorized and revalidated for entitlement appropriateness, at planned intervals, by the organization's business leadership or other accountable business role or function supported by evidence to demonstrate the organization is adhering to the rule of least privilege based on job function. For identified access violations, remediation must follow established user access policies and procedures.
1	Leverage the Advanced Encryption Standard (AES) to encrypt wireless data in transit.	Network architecture diagrams shall clearly identify high-risk environments and data flows that may have legal compliance impacts. Technical measures shall be implemented and shall apply defense-in-depth techniques (e.g., deep packet analysis, traffic throttling, and black-holing) for detection and timely response to network-based attacks associated with anomalous ingress or egress traffic patterns (e.g., MAC spoofing and ARP poisoning attacks) and/or distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) attacks.
0	Access to operating systems shall be controlled by a secure log-on procedure.	Access to operating systems shall be controlled by a secure log-on procedure.
0	o Does the provider maintain a documented method that details the impact of a disruption? o What are the RPO (recovery point objective) and RTO (recovery time objective) for services? Detail according to the criticality of the service. o Are information security activities appropriately addressed in the restoration process? o What are the lines of communication to end customers in the event of a disruption? o Are the roles and responsibilities of teams clearly identified when dealing with a disruption? 	Third-party service providers shall demonstrate compliance with information security and confidentiality, access control, service definitions, and delivery level agreements included in third-party contracts. Third-party reports, records, and services shall undergo audit and review at least annually to govern and maintain compliance with the service delivery agreements.
1	Develop usage policies for critical technologies and define proper use of these technologies.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to restrict the installation of unauthorized software on organizationally-owned or managed user end-point devices (e.g., issued workstations, laptops, and mobile devices) and IT infrastructure network and systems components.
1	Test data shall be selected carefully, protected and controlled.	External business partners shall adhere to the same policies and procedures for change management, release, and testing as internal developers within the organization (e.g., ITIL service management processes).
0	The organization employs a wireless intrusion detection system to identify rogue wireless devices and to detect attack attempts and potential compromises/breaches to the information system.	User access policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for restricting user access as per defined segregation of duties to address business risks associated with a user-role conflict of interest.
1	Managers shall regularly review the compliance of information processing and procedures within their area of responsibility with the appropriate security policies, standards and any other security requirements.	The provider shall use secure (e.g., non-clear text and authenticated) standardized network protocols for the import and export of data and to manage the service, and shall make available a document to consumers (tenants) detailing the relevant interoperability and portability standards that are involved.
0	All configuration rules that allow traffic to flow through network devices should be documented in a configuration management system with a specific business reason for each rule, a specific individual’s name responsible for that business need, and an expected duration of the need.	Providers shall review the risk management and governance processes of their partners so that practices are consistent and aligned to account for risks inherited from other members of that partner's cloud supply chain.
1	Use either video cameras or access control mechanisms (or both) to monitor individual physical access to sensitive areas. Review collected data and correlate with other entries. Store for at least three months, unless otherwise restricted by law.	Ingress and egress points such as service areas and other points where unauthorized personnel may enter the premises shall be monitored, controlled and, if possible, isolated from data storage and processing facilities to prevent unauthorized data corruption, compromise, and loss.
1	Changes to systems within the development lifecycle shall be controlled by the use of formal change control procedures.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting processes and technical measures implemented, for timely detection of vulnerabilities within organizationally-owned or managed applications, infrastructure network and system components (e.g., network vulnerability assessment, penetration testing) to ensure the efficiency of implemented security controls. A risk-based model for prioritizing remediation of identified vulnerabilities shall be used. Changes shall be managed through a change management process for all vendor-supplied patches, configuration changes, or changes to the organization's internally developed software. Upon request, the provider informs customer (tenant) of policies and procedures and identified weaknesses especially if customer (tenant) data is used as part the service and/or customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of control.
1	The organization employs integrity verification tools to detect unauthorized changes to [Assignment: organization-defined software, firmware, and information].	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to restrict the installation of unauthorized software on organizationally-owned or managed user end-point devices (e.g., issued workstations, laptops, and mobile devices) and IT infrastructure network and systems components.
0	To make users accountable for safeguarding their authentication information.	To make users accountable for safeguarding their authentication information.
1	Install the latest stable version of any securityrelated updates on all network devices.	Implementers shall ensure that the security vulnerability assessment tools or services accommodate the virtualization technologies used (e.g., virtualization aware).
0	Appropriate authentication methods shall be used to control access by remote users.	User access policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for restricting user access as per defined segregation of duties to address business risks associated with a user-role conflict of interest.
0	To establish a privacy impact assessment process and to perform a privacy impact assessment as necessary.	To establish a privacy impact assessment process and to perform a privacy impact assessment as necessary.
0	Ensure that all backups have at least one backup destination that is not continuously addressable through operating system calls.	Roles and responsibilities of contractors, employees, and third-party users shall be documented as they relate to information assets and security.
0	To lower the chance of spoofed or modified emails from valid domains, implement Domainbased Message Authentication, Reporting and Conformance (DMARC) policy and verification, starting by implementing the Sender Policy Framework (SPF) and the Domain Keys Identified Mail (DKIM) standards.	Policies and procedures shall be established for the labeling, handling, and security of data and objects which contain data. Mechanisms for label inheritance shall be implemented for objects that act as aggregate containers for data.
0	• Is the cloud provider interoperable with third party identity providers?	Policies and procedures shall be implemented to ensure the consistent review of service agreements (e.g., SLAs) between providers and customers (tenants) across the relevant supply chain (upstream/downstream). Reviews shall be performed at least annually and identify any non-conformance to established agreements. The reviews should result in actions to address service-level conflicts or inconsistencies resulting from disparate supplier relationships.
0	Information systems shall be regularly reviewed for compliance with the organization's information security policies and standards.	Implementers shall ensure that the security vulnerability assessment tools or services accommodate the virtualization technologies used (e.g., virtualization aware).
0	Conflicting duties and areas of responsibility shall be segregated to reduce opportunities for unauthorized or unintentional modification or misuse of the organization's assets.	The company shall have a documented application validation process to test for mobile device, operating system, and application compatibility issues.
1	A formal policy shall be in place, and appropriate security measures shall be adopted to protect against the risks of using mobile computing and communication devices.	The mobile device policy shall prohibit the circumvention of built-in security controls on mobile devices (e.g., jailbreaking or rooting) and shall enforce the prohibition through detective and preventative controls on the device or through a centralized device management system (e.g., mobile device management).
0	The information security related requirements shall be included in the requirements for new information systems or enhancements to existing information systems.	The BYOD policy includes clarifying language for the expectation of privacy, requirements for litigation, e-discovery, and legal holds. The BYOD policy shall clearly state the expectations regarding the loss of non-company data in the case that a wipe of the device is required.
1	The organization:  a. Develops, documents, and disseminates to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]:    1. A system and information integrity policy that addresses purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment, coordination among organizational entities, and compliance; and    2. Procedures to facilitate the implementation of the system and information integrity policy and associated system and information integrity controls; and  b. Reviews and updates the current:    1. System and information integrity policy [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and    2.  System and information integrity procedures [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	Policies and procedures shall be established and maintained in support of data security to include (confidentiality, integrity, and availability) across multiple system interfaces, jurisdictions, and business functions to prevent improper disclosure, alteration, or destruction.
1	All relevant information security requirements shall be established and agreed with each supplier that may access, process, store, communicate, or provide IT infrastructure components for, the organization's information.	Third-party service providers shall demonstrate compliance with information security and confidentiality, access control, service definitions, and delivery level agreements included in third-party contracts. Third-party reports, records, and services shall undergo audit and review at least annually to govern and maintain compliance with the service delivery agreements.
0	To ensure that information security is implemented and operated in accordance with the organizational policies and procedures.	Timely de-provisioning (revocation or modification) of user access to data and organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) applications, infrastructure systems, and network components, shall be implemented as per established policies and procedures and based on user's change in status (e.g., termination of employment or other business relationship, job change, or transfer). Upon request, provider shall inform customer (tenant) of these changes, especially if customer (tenant) data is used as part the service and/or customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of control.
0	The information system fails securely in the event of an operational failure of a boundary protection device.   Supplemental Guidance:  Fail secure is a condition achieved by employing information system mechanisms to ensure that in the event of operational failures of boundary protection devices at managed interfaces (e.g., routers, firewalls, guards, and application gateways residing on protected subnetworks commonly referred to as demilitarized zones), information systems do not enter into unsecure states where intended security properties no longer hold. Failures of boundary protection devices cannot lead to, or cause information external to the devices to enter the devices, nor can failures permit unauthorized information releases. Related controls: CP-2, SC-24.	The company shall have a documented application validation process to test for mobile device, operating system, and application compatibility issues.
1	Ensure that security policies and operational procedures for protecting stored cardholder data are documented, in use, and known to all affected parties.	All data shall be designated with stewardship, with assigned responsibilities defined, documented, and communicated.
1	Passwords/passphrases must meet the following:  Require a minimum length of at least seven characters.  Contain both numeric and alphabetic characters.Alternatively, the passwords/ passphrases must have complexity and strength at least equivalent to the parameters specified above.	Keys must have identifiable owners (binding keys to identities) and there shall be key management policies.
0	Ensure that security policies and operational procedures for restricting access to cardholder data are documented, in use, and known to all affected parties.	Organizations shall create and maintain a control framework which captures standards, regulatory, legal, and statutory requirements relevant for their business needs. The control framework shall be reviewed at least annually to ensure changes that could affect the business processes are reflected.
0	Appropriate contacts with relevant authorities shall be maintained.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for defining allowances and conditions for permitting usage of organizationally-owned or managed user end-point devices (e.g., issued workstations, laptops, and mobile devices) and IT infrastructure network and systems components. Additionally, defining allowances and conditions to permit usage of personal mobile devices and associated applications with access to corporate resources (i.e., BYOD) shall be considered and incorporated as appropriate.
0	o Does the provider maintain a documented method that details the impact of a disruption? o What are the RPO (recovery point objective) and RTO (recovery time objective) for services? Detail according to the criticality of the service. o Are information security activities appropriately addressed in the restoration process? o What are the lines of communication to end customers in the event of a disruption? o Are the roles and responsibilities of teams clearly identified when dealing with a disruption? 	Baseline security requirements shall be established for developed or acquired, organizationally-owned or managed, physical or virtual, applications and infrastructure system and network components that comply with applicable legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations. Deviations from standard baseline configurations must be authorized following change management policies and procedures prior to deployment, provisioning, or use. Compliance with security baseline requirements must be reassessed at least annually unless an alternate frequency has been established and authorized based on business needs.
1	The organization:  a. Develops, documents, and disseminates to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]:    1. An incident response policy that addresses purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment, coordination among organizational entities, and compliance; and    2. Procedures to facilitate the implementation of the incident response policy and associated incident response controls; and  b. Reviews and updates the current:    1. Incident response policy [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and    2. Incident response procedures [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	Policies and procedures shall be established and maintained in support of data security to include (confidentiality, integrity, and availability) across multiple system interfaces, jurisdictions, and business functions to prevent improper disclosure, alteration, or destruction.
0	The organization:  (a)   Conducts an organizational assessment of risk prior to the acquisition or outsourcing of dedicated information security services; and  (b)   Ensures that the acquisition or outsourcing of dedicated information security services is approved by [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles].	Managers are responsible for maintaining awareness of, and complying with, security policies, procedures, and standards that are relevant to their area of responsibility.
1	• Can the provider confirm that the virtualised image does not contain the authentication credentials?	User access policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for ensuring appropriate identity, entitlement, and access management for all internal corporate and customer (tenant) users with access to data and organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) application interfaces and infrastructure network and systems components. These policies, procedures, processes, and measures must incorporate the following:  • Procedures, supporting roles, and responsibilities for provisioning and de-provisioning user account entitlements following the rule of least privilege based on job function (e.g., internal employee and contingent staff personnel changes, customer-controlled access, suppliers' business relationships, or other third-party business relationships)  • Business case considerations for higher levels of assurance and multi-factor authentication secrets (e.g., management interfaces, key generation, remote access, segregation of duties, emergency access, large-scale provisioning or geographically-distributed deployments, and personnel redundancy for critical systems)  • Access segmentation to sessions and data in multi-tenant architectures by any third party (e.g., provider and/or other customer (tenant))  • Identity trust verification and service-to-service application (API) and information processing interoperability (e.g., SSO and federation)  • Account credential lifecycle management from instantiation through revocation  • Account credential and/or identity store minimization or re-use when feasible  • Authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules for access to data and sessions (e.g., encryption and strong/multi-factor, expireable, non-shared authentication secrets)  • Permissions and supporting capabilities for customer (tenant) controls over authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules for access to data and sessions  • Adherence to applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance requirements
0	The information system:  a. Displays to users [Assignment: organization-defined system use notification message or banner] before granting access to the system that provides privacy and security notices consistent with applicable federal laws, Executive Orders, directives, policies, regulations, standards, and guidance and states that:    1. Users are accessing a U.S. Government information system;    2. Information system usage may be monitored, recorded, and subject to audit;    3. Unauthorized use of the information system is prohibited and subject to criminal and civil penalties; and    4. Use of the information system indicates consent to monitoring and recording;  b. Retains the notification message or banner on the screen until users acknowledge the usage conditions and take explicit actions to log on to or further access the information system; and   c. For publicly accessible systems:    1. Displays system use information [Assignment: organization-defined conditions], before granting further access;    2. Displays references, if any, to monitoring, recording, or auditing that are consistent with privacy accommodations for such systems that generally prohibit those activities; and    3. Includes a description of the authorized uses of the system.	Information security policies and procedures shall be established and made readily available for review by all impacted personnel and external business relationships. Information security policies must be authorized by the organization's business leadership (or other accountable business role or function) and supported by a strategic business plan and an information security management program inclusive of defined information security roles and responsibilities for business leadership.
0	The implementation of changes, including patches, service packs, and other updates and modifications, shall be controlled by the use of formal change control procedures.	Requirements for non-disclosure or confidentiality agreements reflecting the organization's needs for the protection of data and operational details shall be identified, documented, and reviewed at planned intervals.
0	The organization:  a. Separates [Assignment: organization-defined duties of individuals];  b. Documents separation of duties of individuals; and  c. Defines information system access authorizations to support separation of duties.	Authorization must be obtained prior to relocation or transfer of hardware, software, or data to an offsite premises.
0	Ensure that security policies and operational procedures for restricting access to cardholder data are documented, in use, and known to all affected parties.	Audit plans shall be developed and maintained to address business process disruptions. Auditing plans shall focus on reviewing the effectiveness of the implementation of security operations. All audit activities must be agreed upon prior to executing any audits.
0	An appropriate set of procedures for information labelling shall be developed and implemented in accordance with the information classification scheme adopted by the organization.	A reliable and mutually agreed upon external time source shall be used to synchronize the system clocks of all relevant information processing systems to facilitate tracing and reconstitution of activity timelines.
0	Use sandboxing to analyze and block inbound email Attachments	Providers shall inspect, account for, and work with their cloud supply-chain partners to correct data quality errors and associated risks. Providers shall design and implement controls to mitigate and contain data security risks through proper separation of duties, role-based access, and least-privilege access for all personnel within their supply chain.
0	Implement processes to test for the presence of wireless access points (802.11), and detect and identify all authorized and unauthorized wireless access points on a quarterly basis.	Policies and procedures shall be established to require that unattended workspaces do not have openly visible (e.g., on a desktop) sensitive documents and user computing sessions are disabled after an established period of inactivity.
0	The integrity of information being made available on a publicly available system shall be protected to prevent unauthorized modification.	Authorization must be obtained prior to relocation or transfer of hardware, software, or data to an offsite premises.
0	Implement only one primary function per server to prevent functions that require different security levels from co-existing on the same server. (For example, web servers, database servers, and DNS should be implemented on separate servers.)	Upon termination of workforce personnel and/or expiration of external business relationships, all organizationally-owned assets shall be returned within an established period.
0	The information system conforms to FICAM-issued profiles.	The information system conforms to FICAM-issued profiles.
0	• Do any accounts have system-wide privileges for the entire cloud system and, if so, for what operations (read/write/delete)?	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to manage business risks associated with permitting mobile device access to corporate resources and may require the implementation of higher assurance compensating controls and acceptable-use policies and procedures (e.g., mandated security training, stronger identity, entitlement and access controls, and device monitoring).
0	Develop usage policies for critical technologies and define proper use of these technologies.	The mobile device policy shall require the use of encryption either for the entire device or for data identified as sensitive on all mobile devices, and shall be enforced through technology controls.
1	o Does the provider have an automated means to inventory all assets, which facilitates their appropriate management?	Policies and procedures shall be established for the secure disposal of equipment (by asset type) used outside the organization's premises. This shall include a wiping solution or destruction process that renders recovery of information impossible. The erasure shall consist of a full overwrite of the drive to ensure that the erased drive is released to inventory for reuse and deployment, or securely stored until it can be destroyed.
1	• Where will the data be physically located?	Organizations shall create and maintain a control framework which captures standards, regulatory, legal, and statutory requirements relevant for their business needs. The control framework shall be reviewed at least annually to ensure changes that could affect the business processes are reflected.
0	• Specify the controls used to protect against malicious code.	A documented list of approved application stores has been defined as acceptable for mobile devices accessing or storing provider managed data.
0	Mobile code shall be authorized before its installation and use, and the configuration shall ensure that the authorized mobile code operates according to a clearly defined security policy. All unauthorized mobile code shall be prevented from executing.	Platform and data-appropriate encryption (e.g., AES-256) in open/validated formats and standard algorithms shall be required. Keys shall not be stored in the cloud (i.e., at the cloud provider in question), but maintained by the cloud consumer or trusted key management provider. Key management and key usage shall be separated duties.
0	All information security responsibilities shall be clearly defined.	The mobile device policy shall require the BYOD user to perform backups of data, prohibit the usage of unapproved application stores, and require the use of anti-malware software (where supported).
0	Information systems shall be regularly reviewed for compliance with the organization's information security policies and standards.	All personnel shall be made aware of their roles and responsibilities for:  • Maintaining awareness and compliance with established policies and procedures and applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance obligations.  • Maintaining a safe and secure working environment
1	Ensure that the hardware asset inventory records the network address, hardware address, machine name, data asset owner, and department for each asset and whether the hardware asset has been approved to connect to the network.	Assets must be classified in terms of business criticality, service-level expectations, and operational continuity requirements. A complete inventory of business-critical assets located at all sites and/or geographical locations and their usage over time shall be maintained and updated regularly, and assigned ownership by defined roles and responsibilities.
0	To ensure a consistent and effective approach to the management of information security incidents, including communication on security events and weaknesses.	To ensure a consistent and effective approach to the management of information security incidents, including communication on security events and weaknesses.
1	Privacy and protection of personally identifiable information shall be ensured as required in relevant legislation and regulation where applicable.	Organizations shall create and maintain a control framework which captures standards, regulatory, legal, and statutory requirements relevant for their business needs. The control framework shall be reviewed at least annually to ensure changes that could affect the business processes are reflected.
0	The information system performs an integrity check of [Assignment: organization-defined software, firmware, and information] [Selection (one or more): at startup; at [Assignment: organization-defined transitional states or security-relevant events]; [Assignment: organization- defined frequency]].	Business-critical or customer (tenant) impacting (physical and virtual) application and system-system interface (API) designs and configurations, and infrastructure network and systems components, shall be designed, developed, and deployed in accordance with mutually agreed-upon service and capacity-level expectations, as well as IT governance and service management policies and procedures.
0	A formal policy shall be in place, and appropriate security measures shall be adopted to protect against the risks of using mobile computing and communication devices.	Provisioning user access (e.g., employees, contractors, customers (tenants), business partners, and/or supplier relationships) to data and organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) applications, infrastructure systems, and network components shall be authorized by the organization's management prior to access being granted and appropriately restricted as per established policies and procedures. Upon request, provider shall inform customer (tenant) of this user access, especially if customer (tenant) data is used as part the service and/or customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of control.
0	Establish, publish, maintain, and disseminate a security policy.	The availability, quality, and adequate capacity and resources shall be planned, prepared, and measured to deliver the required system performance in accordance with legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations. Projections of future capacity requirements shall be made to mitigate the risk of system overload.
0	Limit access to system components and cardholder data to only those individuals whose job requires such access.	Providers shall review the risk management and governance processes of their partners so that practices are consistent and aligned to account for risks inherited from other members of that partner's cloud supply chain.
0	Acceptable network locations for the technologies	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to ensure the development and/or acquisition of new data, physical or virtual applications, infrastructure network, and systems components, or any corporate, operations and/or data center facilities have been pre-authorized by the organization's business leadership or other accountable business role or function.
1	o Does the provider offer the customer (upon request) a forensic image of the virtual machine?	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to triage security-related events and ensure timely and thorough incident management, as per established IT service management policies and procedures.
1	• Do you follow manufacturers recommended maintenance schedules?	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for equipment maintenance ensuring continuity and availability of operations and support personnel.
0	The organization:  a. Determines information security requirements for the information system or information system service in mission/business process planning;  b. Determines, documents, and allocates the resources required to protect the information system or information system service as part of its capital planning and investment control process; and  c. Establishes a discrete line item for information security in organizational programming and budgeting documentation.	Higher levels of assurance are required for protection, retention, and lifecycle management of audit logs, adhering to applicable legal, statutory or regulatory compliance obligations and providing unique user access accountability to detect potentially suspicious network behaviors and/or file integrity anomalies, and to support forensic investigative capabilities in the event of a security breach.
0	The organization provides a short-term uninterruptible power supply to facilitate [Selection (one or more): an orderly shutdown of the information system; transition of the information system to long-term alternate power] in the event of a primary power source loss.	Internal corporate or customer (tenant) user account credentials shall be restricted as per the following, ensuring appropriate identity, entitlement, and access management and in accordance with established policies and procedures:  • Identity trust verification and service-to-service application (API) and information processing interoperability (e.g., SSO and Federation)  • Account credential lifecycle management from instantiation through revocation  • Account credential and/or identity store minimization or re-use when feasible  • Adherence to industry acceptable and/or regulatory compliant authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules (e.g., strong/multi-factor, expireable, non-shared authentication secrets)
1	• What assurance can the PaaS provider give that access to your data is restricted to your enterprise users and to the applications you own?	Policies and procedures shall be established for the labeling, handling, and security of data and objects which contain data. Mechanisms for label inheritance shall be implemented for objects that act as aggregate containers for data.
0	All configuration rules that allow traffic to flow through network devices should be documented in a configuration management system with a specific business reason for each rule, a specific individual’s name responsible for that business need, and an expected duration of the need.	Policies and procedures shall be established for the management of cryptographic keys in the service's cryptosystem (e.g., lifecycle management from key generation to revocation and replacement, public key infrastructure, cryptographic protocol design and algorithms used, access controls in place for secure key generation, and exchange and storage including segregation of keys used for encrypted data or sessions). Upon request, provider shall inform the customer (tenant) of changes within the cryptosystem, especially if the customer (tenant) data is used as part of the service, and/or the customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of the control.
1	When operating platforms are changed, business critical applications shall be reviewed and tested to ensure there is no adverse impact on organizational operations or security.	Secured and encrypted communication channels shall be used when migrating physical servers, applications, or data to virtualized servers and, where possible, shall use a network segregated from production-level networks for such migrations.
0	• Does the vendor provide interoperable export formats for all data stored within the cloud?	An inventory of all mobile devices used to store and access company data shall be kept and maintained. All changes to the status of these devices (i.e., operating system and patch levels, lost or decommissioned status, and to whom the device is assigned or approved for usage (BYOD)) will be included for each device in the inventory.
0	Manage all network devices using multi-factor authentication and encrypted sessions.	Anti-malware awareness training, specific to mobile devices, shall be included in the provider's information security awareness training.
0	Information systems shall be regularly reviewed for compliance with the organization's information security policies and standards.	All data shall be designated with stewardship, with assigned responsibilities defined, documented, and communicated.
0	To provide any amendment, correction or removal to PII processors and third parties to whom personal data had been disclosed.	Physical security perimeters (e.g., fences, walls, barriers, guards, gates, electronic surveillance, physical authentication mechanisms, reception desks, and security patrols) shall be implemented to safeguard sensitive data and information systems.
1	Managers shall regularly review the compliance of information processing and procedures within their area of responsibility with the appropriate security policies, standards and any other security requirements.	The BYOD policy shall clarify the systems and servers allowed for use or access on a BYOD-enabled device.
1	Equipment, information or software shall not be taken off site without prior authorization.	Authorization must be obtained prior to relocation or transfer of hardware, software, or data to an offsite premises.
0	The information system implements transaction recovery for systems that are transaction-based.	The availability, quality, and adequate capacity and resources shall be planned, prepared, and measured to deliver the required system performance in accordance with legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations. Projections of future capacity requirements shall be made to mitigate the risk of system overload.
0	All relevant legislative statutory, regulatory, contractual requirements and the organization's approach to meet these requirements shall be explicitly identified, documented and kept up to date for each information system and the organization.	Roles and responsibilities for performing employment termination or change in employment procedures shall be assigned, documented, and communicated.
0	Do not use group, shared, or generic IDs, passwords, or other authentication methods as follows:  Generic user IDs are disabled or removed.  Shared user IDs do not exist for system administration and other critical functions.  Shared and generic user IDs are not used to administer any system components.PCI DSS Requirements	Providers shall inspect, account for, and work with their cloud supply-chain partners to correct data quality errors and associated risks. Providers shall design and implement controls to mitigate and contain data security risks through proper separation of duties, role-based access, and least-privilege access for all personnel within their supply chain.
0	Mask PAN when displayed (the first six and last four digits are the maximum number of digits to be displayed), such that only personnel with a legitimate business need can see more than the first six/last four digits of the PAN.	Third-party service providers shall demonstrate compliance with information security and confidentiality, access control, service definitions, and delivery level agreements included in third-party contracts. Third-party reports, records, and services shall undergo audit and review at least annually to govern and maintain compliance with the service delivery agreements.
0	o Is this process rehearsed to check that incident handling processes are effective? Does the provider also ensure, during the rehearsal, that everyone within the cloud provider’s support organisation is aware of the processes and of their roles during incident handling (both during the incident and post analysis)?	Organizations shall follow a defined quality change control and testing process (e.g., ITIL Service Management) with established baselines, testing, and release standards that focus on system availability, confidentiality, and integrity of systems and services.
0	• Provide details of the patch management procedure followed.	A reliable and mutually agreed upon external time source shall be used to synchronize the system clocks of all relevant information processing systems to facilitate tracing and reconstitution of activity timelines.
1	The services, reports and records provided by the third party shall be regularly monitored and reviewed, and audits shall be carried out regularly to govern and maintain compliance with the service delivery agreements.	Third-party service providers shall demonstrate compliance with information security and confidentiality, access control, service definitions, and delivery level agreements included in third-party contracts. Third-party reports, records, and services shall undergo audit and review at least annually to govern and maintain compliance with the service delivery agreements.
0	The organization employs vulnerability scanning tools that include the capability to readily update the information system vulnerabilities to be scanned.	The organization employs vulnerability scanning tools that include the capability to readily update the information system vulnerabilities to be scanned.
0	The information system protects wireless access to the system using authentication of [Selection (one or more): users; devices] and encryption.	The information system protects wireless access to the system using authentication of [Selection (one or more): users; devices] and encryption.
0	To limit the collection of PII to that which is within the boundaries of applicable law and strictly necessary for the specified purpose(s).	To limit the collection of PII to that which is within the boundaries of applicable law and strictly necessary for the specified purpose(s).
0	All items of equipment containing storage media shall be checked to ensure that any covered information and licensed software has been removed or securely overwritten prior to disposal.	Requirements for non-disclosure or confidentiality agreements reflecting the organization's needs for the protection of data and operational details shall be identified, documented, and reviewed at planned intervals.
1	Implement incident response procedures in the event unauthorized wireless access points are detected.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for appropriate IT governance and service management to ensure appropriate planning, delivery, and support of the organization's IT capabilities supporting business functions, workforce, and/or customers based on industry acceptable standards (i.e., ITIL v4 and COBIT 5). Additionally, policies and procedures shall include defined roles and responsibilities supported by regular workforce training.
1	Establish an access control system(s) for systems components that restricts access based on a user’s need to know, and is set to “deny all” unless specifically allowed.	Utility programs capable of potentially overriding system, object, network, virtual machine, and application controls shall be restricted.
0	If segmentation is used, confirm PCI DSS scope by performing penetration testing on segmentation controls at least every six months and after any changes to segmentation controls/methods.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to inventory, document, and maintain data flows for data that is resident (permanently or temporarily) within the service's geographically distributed (physical and virtual) applications and infrastructure network and systems components and/or shared with other third parties to ascertain any regulatory, statutory, or supply chain agreement (SLA) compliance impact, and to address any other business risks associated with the data. Upon request, provider shall inform customer (tenant) of compliance impact and risk, especially if customer data is used as part of the services.
0	Assets associated with information and information processing facilities shall be identified and an inventory of these assets shall be drawn up and maintained.	The mobile device policy shall require the use of encryption either for the entire device or for data identified as sensitive on all mobile devices, and shall be enforced through technology controls.
0	If disk encryption is used (rather than file- or column-level database encryption), logical access must be managed separately and independently of native operating system authentication and access control mechanisms (for example, by not using local user account databases or general network login credentials). Decryption keys must not be associated with user accounts.	All structured and unstructured data shall be available to the customer and provided to them upon request in an industry-standard format (e.g., .doc, .xls, .pdf, logs, and flat files).
0	 The information system limits the number of concurrent sessions for each [Assignment: organization-defined account and/or account type] to [Assignment: organization-defined number].	The mobile device policy shall prohibit the circumvention of built-in security controls on mobile devices (e.g., jailbreaking or rooting) and shall enforce the prohibition through detective and preventative controls on the device or through a centralized device management system (e.g., mobile device management).
1	o How are the detection capabilities structured? o How can the cloud customer report anomalies and security events to the provider? o What facilities does the provider allow for customer-selected third party RTSM services to intervene in their systems (where appropriate) or to co-ordinate incident response capabilities with the cloud provider?         o Is there a real time security monitoring (RTSM) service in place? Is the service outsourced? What kind of parameters and services are monitored? o Do you provide (upon request) a periodical report on security incidents (eg,. according to the ITIL definition)? o For how long are the security logs retained? Are those logs securely stored? Who has access to the logs? o Is it possible for the customer to build a HIPS/HIDS in the virtual machine image? Is it possible to integrate the information collected by the intrusion detection and prevention systems of the customer into the RTSM service of the cloud provider or that of a third party? 	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for defining and adhering to the retention period of any critical asset as per established policies and procedures, as well as applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance obligations. Backup and recovery measures shall be incorporated as part of business continuity planning and tested accordingly for effectiveness.
1	The organization tests the incident response capability for the information system [Assignment: organization-defined frequency] using [Assignment: organization-defined tests] to determine the incident response effectiveness and documents the results.	Business continuity and security incident response plans shall be subject to testing at planned intervals or upon significant organizational or environmental changes. Incident response plans shall involve impacted customers (tenant) and other business relationships that represent critical intra-supply chain business process dependencies.
1	Information Security Policy documents shall be approved by management, and published and communicated to all employees and relevant external parties. Information Security Policy documents shall establish the direction of the organization and align to best practices, regulatory, federal/state and international laws where applicable. The Information Security policy documents shall be supported by a strategic plan and a security program with well-defined roles and responsibilities for leadership and officer roles.	Information security policies and procedures shall be established and made readily available for review by all impacted personnel and external business relationships. Information security policies must be authorized by the organization's business leadership (or other accountable business role or function) and supported by a strategic business plan and an information security management program inclusive of defined information security roles and responsibilities for business leadership.
0	Use appropriate facility entry controls to limit and monitor physical access to systems in the cardholder data environment.	Workforce personnel and external business relationships shall be informed of their responsibilities and, if required, shall consent and/or contractually agree to report all information security events in a timely manner. Information security events shall be reported through predefined communications channels in a timely manner adhering to applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance obligations.
0	The information system, in conjunction with a remote device, prevents the device from simultaneously establishing non-remote connections with the system and communicating via some other connection to resources in external networks.	Employment agreements shall incorporate provisions and/or terms for adherence to established information governance and security policies and must be signed by newly hired or on-boarded workforce personnel (e.g., full or part-time employee or contingent staff) prior to granting workforce personnel user access to corporate facilities, resources, and assets.
0	The organization employs automated mechanisms to centrally manage, apply, and verify configuration settings for [Assignment: organization-defined information system components].	Authorization must be obtained prior to relocation or transfer of hardware, software, or data to an offsite premises.
0	To establish efficient governance for PII processing.	To establish efficient governance for PII processing.
0	The allocation and use of privileged access rights shall be restricted and controlled.	Ingress and egress to secure areas shall be constrained and monitored by physical access control mechanisms to ensure that only authorized personnel are allowed access.
0	• Define those services that are outsourced or subcontracted in your service delivery supply chain that are key to the security (including availability) of your operations.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to inventory, document, and maintain data flows for data that is resident (permanently or temporarily) within the service's geographically distributed (physical and virtual) applications and infrastructure network and systems components and/or shared with other third parties to ascertain any regulatory, statutory, or supply chain agreement (SLA) compliance impact, and to address any other business risks associated with the data. Upon request, provider shall inform customer (tenant) of compliance impact and risk, especially if customer data is used as part of the services.
0	Use either video cameras or access control mechanisms (or both) to monitor individual physical access to sensitive areas. Review collected data and correlate with other entries. Store for at least three months, unless otherwise restricted by law.	Policies and procedures shall be established to store and manage identity information about every person who accesses IT infrastructure and to determine their level of access. Policies shall also be developed to control access to network resources based on user identity.
1	The organization develops a continuous monitoring strategy and implements a continuous monitoring program that includes:  a. Establishment of [Assignment: organization-defined metrics] to be monitored;  b. Establishment of [Assignment: organization-defined frequencies] for monitoring and [Assignment: organization-defined frequencies] for assessments supporting such monitoring;  c. Ongoing security control assessments in accordance with the organizational continuous monitoring strategy;  d. Ongoing security status monitoring of organization-defined metrics in accordance with the organizational continuous monitoring strategy;  e. Correlation and analysis of security-related information generated by assessments and monitoring;  f. Response actions to address results of the analysis of security-related information; and  g. Reporting the security status of organization and the information system to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles] [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	Audit plans shall be developed and maintained to address business process disruptions. Auditing plans shall focus on reviewing the effectiveness of the implementation of security operations. All audit activities must be agreed upon prior to executing any audits.
0	A policy on the use of cryptographic controls for protection of information shall be developed and implemented.	Physical protection against damage from natural causes and disasters, as well as deliberate attacks, including fire, flood, atmospheric electrical discharge, solar induced geomagnetic storm, wind, earthquake, tsunami, explosion, nuclear accident, volcanic activity, biological hazard, civil unrest, mudslide, tectonic activity, and other forms of natural or man-made disaster shall be anticipated, designed, and have countermeasures applied.
0	Requirements for ensuring authenticity and protecting message integrity in applications shall be identified and controls implemented.	Providers shall inspect, account for, and work with their cloud supply-chain partners to correct data quality errors and associated risks. Providers shall design and implement controls to mitigate and contain data security risks through proper separation of duties, role-based access, and least-privilege access for all personnel within their supply chain.
1	Compare all network device configuration against approved security configurations defined for each network device in use and alert when any deviations are discovered.	Policies and procedures shall be established for managing the risks associated with applying changes to:  • Business-critical or customer (tenant)-impacting (physical and virtual) applications and system-system interface (API) designs and configurations.  • Infrastructure network and systems components. Technical measures shall be implemented to provide assurance that all changes directly correspond to a registered change request, business-critical or customer (tenant), and/or authorization by, the customer (tenant) as per agreement (SLA) prior to deployment.
1	Initialization, stopping, or pausing of the audit logs	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to restrict the installation of unauthorized software on organizationally-owned or managed user end-point devices (e.g., issued workstations, laptops, and mobile devices) and IT infrastructure network and systems components.
1	When operating platforms are changed, business critical applications shall be reviewed and tested to ensure there is no adverse impact on organizational operations or security.	The mobile device policy shall prohibit the circumvention of built-in security controls on mobile devices (e.g., jailbreaking or rooting) and shall enforce the prohibition through detective and preventative controls on the device or through a centralized device management system (e.g., mobile device management).
1	The organization obtains alternate telecommunications services to reduce the likelihood of sharing a single point of failure with primary telecommunications services. 	Data center utilities services and environmental conditions (e.g., water, power, temperature and humidity controls, telecommunications, and internet connectivity) shall be secured, monitored, maintained, and tested for continual effectiveness at planned intervals to ensure protection from unauthorized interception or damage, and designed with automated fail-over or other redundancies in the event of planned or unplanned disruptions.
1	Develop usage policies for critical technologies and define proper use of these technologies.	Internal corporate or customer (tenant) user account credentials shall be restricted as per the following, ensuring appropriate identity, entitlement, and access management and in accordance with established policies and procedures:  • Identity trust verification and service-to-service application (API) and information processing interoperability (e.g., SSO and Federation)  • Account credential lifecycle management from instantiation through revocation  • Account credential and/or identity store minimization or re-use when feasible  • Adherence to industry acceptable and/or regulatory compliant authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules (e.g., strong/multi-factor, expireable, non-shared authentication secrets)
0	The organization:  a. Develops, documents, and disseminates to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]:    1. A system and information integrity policy that addresses purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment, coordination among organizational entities, and compliance; and    2. Procedures to facilitate the implementation of the system and information integrity policy and associated system and information integrity controls; and  b. Reviews and updates the current:    1. System and information integrity policy [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and    2.  System and information integrity procedures [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to manage business risks associated with permitting mobile device access to corporate resources and may require the implementation of higher assurance compensating controls and acceptable-use policies and procedures (e.g., mandated security training, stronger identity, entitlement and access controls, and device monitoring).
0	Data output from an application shall be validated to ensure that the processing of stored information is correct and appropriate to the circumstances.	An Information Security Management Program (ISMP) shall be developed, documented, approved, and implemented that includes administrative, technical, and physical safeguards to protect assets and data from loss, misuse, unauthorized access, disclosure, alteration, and destruction. The security program shall include, but not be limited to, the following areas insofar as they relate to the characteristics of the business:  • Risk management  • Security policy  • Organization of information security  • Asset management  • Human resources security  • Physical and environmental security  • Communications and operations management  • Access control  • Information systems acquisition, development, and maintenance
0	Managers shall regularly review the compliance of information processing and procedures within their area of responsibility with the appropriate security policies, standards and any other security requirements.	Policies and procedures shall be established with supporting business processes and technical measures implemented for the secure disposal and complete removal of data from all storage media, ensuring data is not recoverable by any computer forensic means.
1	Documented change approval by authorized parties.	External business partners shall adhere to the same policies and procedures for change management, release, and testing as internal developers within the organization (e.g., ITIL service management processes).
0	Maintain and implement policies and procedures to manage service providers with whom cardholder data is shared, or that could affect the security of cardholder data, as follows:PCI DSS Requirements	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for appropriate IT governance and service management to ensure appropriate planning, delivery, and support of the organization's IT capabilities supporting business functions, workforce, and/or customers based on industry acceptable standards (i.e., ITIL v4 and COBIT 5). Additionally, policies and procedures shall include defined roles and responsibilities supported by regular workforce training.
0	Outsourced software development shall be supervised and monitored by the organization.	Policies and procedures shall be established to require that unattended workspaces do not have openly visible (e.g., on a desktop) sensitive documents and user computing sessions are disabled after an established period of inactivity.
0	The information system implements mechanisms for authentication to a cryptographic module that meet the requirements of applicable federal laws, Executive Orders, directives, policies, regulations, standards, and guidance for such authentication.	Employment agreements shall incorporate provisions and/or terms for adherence to established information governance and security policies and must be signed by newly hired or on-boarded workforce personnel (e.g., full or part-time employee or contingent staff) prior to granting workforce personnel user access to corporate facilities, resources, and assets.
0	• When equipment is sent away for repair, is the data cleaned from it first? o How is this done? 	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for equipment maintenance ensuring continuity and availability of operations and support personnel.
1	The organization:  a. Develops, documents, and disseminates to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]:    1. A security awareness and training policy that addresses purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment, coordination among organizational entities, and compliance; and    2.  Procedures to facilitate the implementation of the security awareness and training policy and associated security awareness and training controls; and  b. Reviews and updates the current:    1. Security awareness and training policy [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and    2.  Security awareness and training procedures [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	Policies and procedures shall be established and maintained in support of data security to include (confidentiality, integrity, and availability) across multiple system interfaces, jurisdictions, and business functions to prevent improper disclosure, alteration, or destruction.
0	The information system alerts [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles] when the following indications of compromise or potential compromise occur: [Assignment: organization- defined compromise indicators].	Applications and programming interfaces (APIs) shall be designed, developed, deployed, and tested in accordance with leading industry standards (e.g., OWASP for web applications) and adhere to applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance obligations.
0	The organization:  a. Enforces physical access authorizations at [Assignment: organization-defined entry/exit points to the facility where the information system resides] by;    1. Verifying individual access authorizations before granting access to the facility; and    2. Controlling ingress/egress to the facility using [Selection (one or more): [Assignment: organization-defined physical access control systems/devices]; guards];  b. Maintains physical access audit logs for [Assignment: organization-defined entry/exit points];  c. Provides [Assignment: organization-defined security safeguards] to control access to areas within the facility officially designated as publicly accessible;  d. Escorts visitors and monitors visitor activity [Assignment: organization-defined circumstances requiring visitor escorts and monitoring];  e. Secures keys, combinations, and other physical access devices;  f. Inventories [Assignment: organization-defined physical access devices] every [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and  g. Changes combinations and keys [Assignment: organization-defined frequency] and/or when keys are lost, combinations are compromised, or individuals are transferred or terminated.	Business-critical or customer (tenant) impacting (physical and virtual) application and system-system interface (API) designs and configurations, and infrastructure network and systems components, shall be designed, developed, and deployed in accordance with mutually agreed-upon service and capacity-level expectations, as well as IT governance and service management policies and procedures.
0	All configuration rules that allow traffic to flow through network devices should be documented in a configuration management system with a specific business reason for each rule, a specific individual’s name responsible for that business need, and an expected duration of the need.	Policies and procedures shall be established to require that unattended workspaces do not have openly visible (e.g., on a desktop) sensitive documents and user computing sessions are disabled after an established period of inactivity.
1	Visitors are identified and given a badge or other identification that expires and that visibly distinguishes the visitors from onsite personnel.	Ingress and egress points such as service areas and other points where unauthorized personnel may enter the premises shall be monitored, controlled and, if possible, isolated from data storage and processing facilities to prevent unauthorized data corruption, compromise, and loss.
0	Time data is protected.	Providers shall assure reasonable information security across their information supply chain by performing an annual review. The review shall include all partners/third party-providers upon which their information supply chain depends on.
0	The organization:  (a)   Issues [Assignment: organization-defined information systems, system components, or devices] with [Assignment: organization-defined configurations] to individuals traveling to locations that the organization deems to be of significant risk; and  (b)   Applies [Assignment: organization-defined security safeguards] to the devices when the individuals return.	Policies and procedures are established for permissible storage and access of identities used for authentication to ensure identities are only accessible based on rules of least privilege and replication limitation only to users explicitly defined as business necessary.
1	Asset owners shall review users' access rights at regular intervals.	The identification, assessment, and prioritization of risks posed by business processes requiring third-party access to the organization's information systems and data shall be followed by coordinated application of resources to minimize, monitor, and measure likelihood and impact of unauthorized or inappropriate access. Compensating controls derived from the risk analysis shall be implemented prior to provisioning access.
0	Implement automated audit trails for all system components to reconstruct the following events:	To reduce the risks from environmental threats, hazards, and opportunities for unauthorized access, equipment shall be kept away from locations subject to high probability environmental risks and supplemented by redundant equipment located at a reasonable distance.
1	Place application firewalls in front of any critical servers to verify and validate the traffic going to the server. Any unauthorized traffic should be blocked and logged.	Data input and output integrity routines (i.e., reconciliation and edit checks) shall be implemented for application interfaces and databases to prevent manual or systematic processing errors, corruption of data, or misuse.
1	All relevant legislative statutory, regulatory, contractual requirements and the organization's approach to meet these requirements shall be explicitly identified, documented and kept up to date for each information system and the organization.	All mobile devices permitted for use through the company BYOD program or a company-assigned mobile device shall allow for remote wipe by the company's corporate IT or shall have all company-provided data wiped by the company's corporate IT.
1	The organization, upon termination of individual employment:  a. Disables information system access within [Assignment: organization-defined time period];  b. Terminates/revokes any authenticators/credentials associated with the individual;  c. Conducts exit interviews that include a discussion of [Assignment: organization-defined information security topics];  d. Retrieves all security-related organizational information system-related property;  e. Retains access to organizational information and information systems formerly controlled by terminated individual; and  f. Notifies [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles] within [Assignment: organization-defined time period].	Internal corporate or customer (tenant) user account credentials shall be restricted as per the following, ensuring appropriate identity, entitlement, and access management and in accordance with established policies and procedures:  • Identity trust verification and service-to-service application (API) and information processing interoperability (e.g., SSO and Federation)  • Account credential lifecycle management from instantiation through revocation  • Account credential and/or identity store minimization or re-use when feasible  • Adherence to industry acceptable and/or regulatory compliant authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules (e.g., strong/multi-factor, expireable, non-shared authentication secrets)
0	Privacy and protection of personally identifiable information shall be ensured as required in relevant legislation and regulation where applicable.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes implemented, for maintaining a safe and secure working environment in offices, rooms, facilities, and secure areas storing sensitive information.
0	Disable peer-to-peer (ad hoc) wireless network capabilities on wireless clients.	Employment agreements shall incorporate provisions and/or terms for adherence to established information governance and security policies and must be signed by newly hired or on-boarded workforce personnel (e.g., full or part-time employee or contingent staff) prior to granting workforce personnel user access to corporate facilities, resources, and assets.
1	All relevant information security requirements shall be established and agreed with each supplier that may access, process, store, communicate, or provide IT infrastructure components for, the organization's information.	Supply chain agreements (e.g., SLAs) between providers and customers (tenants) shall incorporate at least the following mutually-agreed upon provisions and/or terms:  • Scope of business relationship and services offered (e.g., customer (tenant) data acquisition, exchange and usage, feature sets and functionality, personnel and infrastructure network and systems components for service delivery and support, roles and responsibilities of provider and customer (tenant) and any subcontracted or outsourced business relationships, physical geographical location of hosted services, and any known regulatory compliance considerations)  • Information security requirements, provider and customer (tenant) primary points of contact for the duration of the business relationship, and references to detailed supporting and relevant business processes and technical measures implemented to enable effectively governance, risk management, assurance and legal, statutory and regulatory compliance obligations by all impacted business relationships  • Notification and/or pre-authorization of any changes controlled by the provider with customer (tenant) impacts  • Timely notification of a security incident (or confirmed breach) to all customers (tenants) and other business relationships impacted (i.e., up- and down-stream impacted supply chain)  • Assessment and independent verification of compliance with agreement provisions and/or terms (e.g., industry-acceptable certification, attestation audit report, or equivalent forms of assurance) without posing an unacceptable business risk of exposure to the organization being assessed  • Expiration of the business relationship and treatment of customer (tenant) data impacted  • Customer (tenant) service-to-service application (API) and data interoperability and portability requirements for application development and information exchange, usage, and integrity persistence
1	The organization:  a. Develops, documents, and disseminates to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]:    1. An identification and authentication policy that addresses purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment, coordination among organizational entities, and compliance; and    2. Procedures to facilitate the implementation of the identification and authentication policy and associated identification and authentication controls; and  b. Reviews and updates the current:    1. Identification and authentication policy [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and    2. Identification and authentication procedures [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for appropriate IT governance and service management to ensure appropriate planning, delivery, and support of the organization's IT capabilities supporting business functions, workforce, and/or customers based on industry acceptable standards (i.e., ITIL v4 and COBIT 5). Additionally, policies and procedures shall include defined roles and responsibilities supported by regular workforce training.
0	A clear desk policy for papers and removable storage media and a clear screen policy for information assets shall be adopted.	The organization's business leadership (or other accountable business role or function) shall review the information security policy at planned intervals or as a result of changes to the organization to ensure its continuing alignment with the security strategy, effectiveness, accuracy, relevance, and applicability to legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance obligations.
0	The organization tests the incident response capability for the information system [Assignment: organization-defined frequency] using [Assignment: organization-defined tests] to determine the incident response effectiveness and documents the results.	User access to diagnostic and configuration ports shall be restricted to authorized individuals and applications.
0	Equipment shall be sited or protected to reduce the risks from environmental threats and hazards, and opportunities for unauthorized access.	Changes to mobile device operating systems, patch levels, and/or applications shall be managed through the company's change management processes.
1	Physical security for offices, rooms, and facilities shall be designed and applied.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes implemented, for maintaining a safe and secure working environment in offices, rooms, facilities, and secure areas storing sensitive information.
0	Functionality testing to verify that the change does not adversely impact the security of the system.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to ensure the development and/or acquisition of new data, physical or virtual applications, infrastructure network, and systems components, or any corporate, operations and/or data center facilities have been pre-authorized by the organization's business leadership or other accountable business role or function.
0	Asset owners shall review users' access rights at regular intervals.	Production data shall not be replicated or used in non-production environments. Any use of customer data in non-production environments requires explicit, documented approval from all customers whose data is affected, and must comply with all legal and regulatory requirements for scrubbing of sensitive data elements.
1	The organization employs the principle of least privilege, allowing only authorized accesses for users (or processes acting on behalf of users) which are necessary to accomplish assigned tasks in accordance with organizational missions and business functions.	Provisioning user access (e.g., employees, contractors, customers (tenants), business partners, and/or supplier relationships) to data and organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) applications, infrastructure systems, and network components shall be authorized by the organization's management prior to access being granted and appropriately restricted as per established policies and procedures. Upon request, provider shall inform customer (tenant) of this user access, especially if customer (tenant) data is used as part the service and/or customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of control.
1	The organization establishes alternate telecommunications services including necessary agreements to permit the resumption of [Assignment: organization-defined information system operations] for essential missions and business functions within [Assignment: organization- defined time period] when the primary telecommunications capabilities are unavailable at either the primary or alternate processing or storage sites.	Data center utilities services and environmental conditions (e.g., water, power, temperature and humidity controls, telecommunications, and internet connectivity) shall be secured, monitored, maintained, and tested for continual effectiveness at planned intervals to ensure protection from unauthorized interception or damage, and designed with automated fail-over or other redundancies in the event of planned or unplanned disruptions.
1	• Does the system allow for a federated IDM infrastructure which is interoperable both for high assurance (OTP systems, where required) and low assurance (eg. username and password)?	Policies, procedures, and mutually-agreed upon provisions and/or terms shall be established to satisfy customer (tenant) requirements for service-to-service application (API) and information processing interoperability, and portability for application development and information exchange, usage, and integrity persistence.
1	The organization establishes and manages cryptographic keys for required cryptography employed within the information system in accordance with [Assignment: organization-defined requirements for key generation, distribution, storage, access, and destruction].	Policies and procedures shall be established for the management of cryptographic keys in the service's cryptosystem (e.g., lifecycle management from key generation to revocation and replacement, public key infrastructure, cryptographic protocol design and algorithms used, access controls in place for secure key generation, and exchange and storage including segregation of keys used for encrypted data or sessions). Upon request, provider shall inform the customer (tenant) of changes within the cryptosystem, especially if the customer (tenant) data is used as part of the service, and/or the customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of the control.
1	• Is the host firewall run with only the minimum ports necessary to support the services within the virtual instance?	Network environments and virtual instances shall be designed and configured to restrict and monitor traffic between trusted and untrusted connections. These configurations shall be reviewed at least annually, and supported by a documented justification for use for all allowed services, protocols, ports, and by compensating controls.
1	Insecure cryptographic storage	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for the use of encryption protocols for protection of sensitive data in storage (e.g., file servers, databases, and end-user workstations), data in use (memory), and data in transmission (e.g., system interfaces, over public networks, and electronic messaging) as per applicable legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations.
1	Disable peer-to-peer (ad hoc) wireless network capabilities on wireless clients.	Secured and encrypted communication channels shall be used when migrating physical servers, applications, or data to virtualized servers and, where possible, shall use a network segregated from production-level networks for such migrations.
1	Ensure that all system components and software are protected from known vulnerabilities by installing applicable vendor- supplied security patches. Install critical security patches within one month of release.	Physical protection against damage from natural causes and disasters, as well as deliberate attacks, including fire, flood, atmospheric electrical discharge, solar induced geomagnetic storm, wind, earthquake, tsunami, explosion, nuclear accident, volcanic activity, biological hazard, civil unrest, mudslide, tectonic activity, and other forms of natural or man-made disaster shall be anticipated, designed, and have countermeasures applied.
0	The organization:  a. Develops, documents, and disseminates to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]:    1. A security awareness and training policy that addresses purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment, coordination among organizational entities, and compliance; and    2.  Procedures to facilitate the implementation of the security awareness and training policy and associated security awareness and training controls; and  b. Reviews and updates the current:    1. Security awareness and training policy [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and    2.  Security awareness and training procedures [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	Physical access to information assets and functions by users and support personnel shall be restricted.
0	• Can the provider detail what information is recorded within audit logs? o For what period is this data retained? o Is it possible to segment data within audit logs so they can be made available to the end customer and/or law enforcement without compromising other customers and still be admissible in court? o What controls are employed to protect logs from unauthorised access or tampering? o What method is used to check and protect the integrity of audit logs? 	Ingress and egress to secure areas shall be constrained and monitored by physical access control mechanisms to ensure that only authorized personnel are allowed access.
1	For wireless environments connected to the cardholder data environment or transmitting cardholder data, change ALL wireless vendor defaults at installation, including but not limited to default wireless encryption keys, passwords, and SNMP community strings.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to protect wireless network environments, including the following:  • Perimeter firewalls implemented and configured to restrict unauthorized traffic  • Security settings enabled with strong encryption for authentication and transmission, replacing vendor default settings (e.g., encryption keys, passwords, and SNMP community strings)  • User access to wireless network devices restricted to authorized personnel  • The capability to detect the presence of unauthorized (rogue) wireless network devices for a timely disconnect from the network
0	The organization employs automated mechanisms to support the incident handling process.	Third-party service providers shall demonstrate compliance with information security and confidentiality, access control, service definitions, and delivery level agreements included in third-party contracts. Third-party reports, records, and services shall undergo audit and review at least annually to govern and maintain compliance with the service delivery agreements.
0	The organization:  a. Develops, documents, and disseminates to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]:    1. A contingency planning policy that addresses purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment, coordination among organizational entities, and compliance; and    2. Procedures to facilitate the implementation of the contingency planning policy and associated contingency planning controls; and  b. Reviews and updates the current:    1. Contingency planning policy [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and    2. Contingency planning procedures [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	Information system documentation (e.g., administrator and user guides, and architecture diagrams) shall be made available to authorized personnel to ensure the following:  • Configuring, installing, and operating the information system  • Effectively using the system’s security features
0	Separation of duties shall be enforced to reduce opportunities for unauthorized or unintentional modification or misuse of the organization's assets.	Policies and procedures shall be established and maintained in support of data security to include (confidentiality, integrity, and availability) across multiple system interfaces, jurisdictions, and business functions to prevent improper disclosure, alteration, or destruction.
1	Conflicting duties and areas of responsibility shall be segregated to reduce opportunities for unauthorized or unintentional modification or misuse of the organization's assets.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to restrict the installation of unauthorized software on organizationally-owned or managed user end-point devices (e.g., issued workstations, laptops, and mobile devices) and IT infrastructure network and systems components.
0	Ensure that backups are properly protected via physical security or encryption when they are stored, as well as when they are moved across the network. This includes remote backups and cloud services.	User access policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for ensuring appropriate identity, entitlement, and access management for all internal corporate and customer (tenant) users with access to data and organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) application interfaces and infrastructure network and systems components. These policies, procedures, processes, and measures must incorporate the following:  • Procedures, supporting roles, and responsibilities for provisioning and de-provisioning user account entitlements following the rule of least privilege based on job function (e.g., internal employee and contingent staff personnel changes, customer-controlled access, suppliers' business relationships, or other third-party business relationships)  • Business case considerations for higher levels of assurance and multi-factor authentication secrets (e.g., management interfaces, key generation, remote access, segregation of duties, emergency access, large-scale provisioning or geographically-distributed deployments, and personnel redundancy for critical systems)  • Access segmentation to sessions and data in multi-tenant architectures by any third party (e.g., provider and/or other customer (tenant))  • Identity trust verification and service-to-service application (API) and information processing interoperability (e.g., SSO and federation)  • Account credential lifecycle management from instantiation through revocation  • Account credential and/or identity store minimization or re-use when feasible  • Authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules for access to data and sessions (e.g., encryption and strong/multi-factor, expireable, non-shared authentication secrets)  • Permissions and supporting capabilities for customer (tenant) controls over authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules for access to data and sessions  • Adherence to applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance requirements
0	To ensure that disclosures of PII, especially to third-parties, are recorded. To ensure the PII processor notifies the PII controller of any legally binding requests for disclosure of PII. Provisions for the use of subcontractors to process PII should be specified in the contract between the PII processor and the PII controller.	Secured and encrypted communication channels shall be used when migrating physical servers, applications, or data to virtualized servers and, where possible, shall use a network segregated from production-level networks for such migrations.
0	There shall be a formal documented and implemented user registration and de-registration procedure for granting and revoking access.	Network architecture diagrams shall clearly identify high-risk environments and data flows that may have legal compliance impacts. Technical measures shall be implemented and shall apply defense-in-depth techniques (e.g., deep packet analysis, traffic throttling, and black-holing) for detection and timely response to network-based attacks associated with anomalous ingress or egress traffic patterns (e.g., MAC spoofing and ARP poisoning attacks) and/or distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) attacks.
0	： To minimise the impact of audit activities on operational systems.	All structured and unstructured data shall be available to the customer and provided to them upon request in an industry-standard format (e.g., .doc, .xls, .pdf, logs, and flat files).
0	To ensure correct and secure operations of information processing facilities.	To ensure correct and secure operations of information processing facilities.
0	Secure audit trails so they cannot be altered.	Secured and encrypted communication channels shall be used when migrating physical servers, applications, or data to virtualized servers and, where possible, shall use a network segregated from production-level networks for such migrations.
1	The organization:  (a)   Develops primary and alternate telecommunications service agreements that contain priority- of-service provisions in accordance with organizational availability requirements (including recovery time objectives); and  (b)   Requests Telecommunications Service Priority for all telecommunications services used for national security emergency preparedness in the event that the primary and/or alternate telecommunications services are provided by a common carrier.	Data center utilities services and environmental conditions (e.g., water, power, temperature and humidity controls, telecommunications, and internet connectivity) shall be secured, monitored, maintained, and tested for continual effectiveness at planned intervals to ensure protection from unauthorized interception or damage, and designed with automated fail-over or other redundancies in the event of planned or unplanned disruptions.
0	The organization connects and configures individual intrusion detection tools into an information system-wide intrusion detection system. 	The organization connects and configures individual intrusion detection tools into an information system-wide intrusion detection system. 
1	• Define those services that are outsourced or subcontracted in your service delivery supply chain that are key to the security (including availability) of your operations.	The identification, assessment, and prioritization of risks posed by business processes requiring third-party access to the organization's information systems and data shall be followed by coordinated application of resources to minimize, monitor, and measure likelihood and impact of unauthorized or inappropriate access. Compensating controls derived from the risk analysis shall be implemented prior to provisioning access.
1	Deploy system configuration management tools that will automatically enforce and redeploy configuration settings to systems at regularly scheduled intervals.	Policies and procedures shall be established for managing the risks associated with applying changes to:  • Business-critical or customer (tenant)-impacting (physical and virtual) applications and system-system interface (API) designs and configurations.  • Infrastructure network and systems components. Technical measures shall be implemented to provide assurance that all changes directly correspond to a registered change request, business-critical or customer (tenant), and/or authorization by, the customer (tenant) as per agreement (SLA) prior to deployment.
0	Users shall  be required to follow the organization's practices in the  use of secret authentication information.	The provider shall make security incident information available to all affected customers and providers periodically through electronic methods (e.g., portals).
1	· Detail policies and procedures for backup. This should include procedures for the management of removable media and methods for securely destroying media no longer required. (Depending on his business requirements, the customer may wish to put in place an independent backup strategy. This is particularly relevant where time-critical access to back-up is required.)	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for defining and adhering to the retention period of any critical asset as per established policies and procedures, as well as applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance obligations. Backup and recovery measures shall be incorporated as part of business continuity planning and tested accordingly for effectiveness.
0	Perform reviews at least quarterly to verify BAU activities are being followed. Reviews must be performed by personnel assigned to the PCI DSS compliance program (as identified in A3.1.3), and include the following:  Confirmation that all BAU activities (e.g., A3.2.2, A3.2.6, and A3.3.1) are being performed  Confirmation that personnel are following security policies and operational procedures (for example, daily log reviews, firewall rule-set reviews, configuration standards for new systems, etc.)  Documenting how the reviews were completed, including how all BAU activities were verified as being in place.  Collection of documented evidence as required for the annual PCI DSS assessment  Review and sign-off of results by personnel assigned responsibility for the PCI DSS compliance program (as identified in A3.1.3)  Retention of records and documentation for at least 12 months, covering all BAU activities	Perform reviews at least quarterly to verify BAU activities are being followed. Reviews must be performed by personnel assigned to the PCI DSS compliance program (as identified in A3.1.3), and include the following:  Confirmation that all BAU activities (e.g., A3.2.2, A3.2.6, and A3.3.1) are being performed  Confirmation that personnel are following security policies and operational procedures (for example, daily log reviews, firewall rule-set reviews, configuration standards for new systems, etc.)  Documenting how the reviews were completed, including how all BAU activities were verified as being in place.  Collection of documented evidence as required for the annual PCI DSS assessment  Review and sign-off of results by personnel assigned responsibility for the PCI DSS compliance program (as identified in A3.1.3)  Retention of records and documentation for at least 12 months, covering all BAU activities
0	Maintain a written agreement that includes an acknowledgement that the service providers are responsible for the security of cardholder data the service providers possess or otherwise store, process or transmit on behalf of the customer, or to the extent that they could impact the security of the customer’s cardholder data environment.	The BYOD policy and supporting awareness training clearly states the approved applications, application stores, and application extensions and plugins that may be used for BYOD usage.
0	Address common coding vulnerabilities in software-development processes as follows:  Train developers at least annually in up- to-date secure coding techniques, including how to avoid common coding vulnerabilities.  Develop applications based on secure coding guidelines.	An Information Security Management Program (ISMP) shall be developed, documented, approved, and implemented that includes administrative, technical, and physical safeguards to protect assets and data from loss, misuse, unauthorized access, disclosure, alteration, and destruction. The security program shall include, but not be limited to, the following areas insofar as they relate to the characteristics of the business:  • Risk management  • Security policy  • Organization of information security  • Asset management  • Human resources security  • Physical and environmental security  • Communications and operations management  • Access control  • Information systems acquisition, development, and maintenance
0	The software inventory system should be tied into the hardware asset inventory so all devices and associated software are tracked from a single location.	Upon termination of workforce personnel and/or expiration of external business relationships, all organizationally-owned assets shall be returned within an established period.
0	Store cryptographic keys in the fewest possible locations.	All cloud-based services used by the company's mobile devices or BYOD shall be pre-approved for usage and the storage of company business data.
0	Modifications to software packages shall be discouraged, limited to necessary changes and all changes shall be strictly controlled.	Proper forensic procedures, including chain of custody, are required for the presentation of evidence to support potential legal action subject to the relevant jurisdiction after an information security incident. Upon notification, customers and/or other external business partners impacted by a security breach shall be given the opportunity to participate as is legally permissible in the forensic investigation.
0	When operating platforms are changed, business critical applications shall be reviewed and tested to ensure there is no adverse impact on organizational operations or security.	Supply chain agreements (e.g., SLAs) between providers and customers (tenants) shall incorporate at least the following mutually-agreed upon provisions and/or terms:  • Scope of business relationship and services offered (e.g., customer (tenant) data acquisition, exchange and usage, feature sets and functionality, personnel and infrastructure network and systems components for service delivery and support, roles and responsibilities of provider and customer (tenant) and any subcontracted or outsourced business relationships, physical geographical location of hosted services, and any known regulatory compliance considerations)  • Information security requirements, provider and customer (tenant) primary points of contact for the duration of the business relationship, and references to detailed supporting and relevant business processes and technical measures implemented to enable effectively governance, risk management, assurance and legal, statutory and regulatory compliance obligations by all impacted business relationships  • Notification and/or pre-authorization of any changes controlled by the provider with customer (tenant) impacts  • Timely notification of a security incident (or confirmed breach) to all customers (tenants) and other business relationships impacted (i.e., up- and down-stream impacted supply chain)  • Assessment and independent verification of compliance with agreement provisions and/or terms (e.g., industry-acceptable certification, attestation audit report, or equivalent forms of assurance) without posing an unacceptable business risk of exposure to the organization being assessed  • Expiration of the business relationship and treatment of customer (tenant) data impacted  • Customer (tenant) service-to-service application (API) and data interoperability and portability requirements for application development and information exchange, usage, and integrity persistence
0	To ensure that information security is implemented and operated in accordance with the organizational policies and procedures.	To ensure that information security is implemented and operated in accordance with the organizational policies and procedures.
0	Encrypt all sensitive information in transit.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to ensure the development and/or acquisition of new data, physical or virtual applications, infrastructure network, and systems components, or any corporate, operations and/or data center facilities have been pre-authorized by the organization's business leadership or other accountable business role or function.
1	The organization:  a. Develops, documents, and disseminates to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]:    1. A personnel security policy that addresses purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment, coordination among organizational entities, and compliance; and    2. Procedures to facilitate the implementation of the personnel security policy and associated personnel security controls; and  b. Reviews and updates the current:    1. Personnel security policy [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and    2. Personnel security procedures [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	Policies and procedures shall be established and maintained in support of data security to include (confidentiality, integrity, and availability) across multiple system interfaces, jurisdictions, and business functions to prevent improper disclosure, alteration, or destruction.
0	All relevant legislative statutory, regulatory, contractual requirements and the organization's approach to meet these requirements shall be explicitly identified, documented and kept up to date for each information system and the organization.	The identification, assessment, and prioritization of risks posed by business processes requiring third-party access to the organization's information systems and data shall be followed by coordinated application of resources to minimize, monitor, and measure likelihood and impact of unauthorized or inappropriate access. Compensating controls derived from the risk analysis shall be implemented prior to provisioning access.
1	Networks shall be managed and controlled in order to protect the organization from threats and to maintain security for the systems and applications using the network, including information in transit.	Secured and encrypted communication channels shall be used when migrating physical servers, applications, or data to virtualized servers and, where possible, shall use a network segregated from production-level networks for such migrations.
1	Validation checks shall be incorporated into applications to detect any corruption of information through processing errors or deliberate acts.	Applications and programming interfaces (APIs) shall be designed, developed, deployed, and tested in accordance with leading industry standards (e.g., OWASP for web applications) and adhere to applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance obligations.
1	Test data shall be selected carefully, protected and controlled.	Production data shall not be replicated or used in non-production environments. Any use of customer data in non-production environments requires explicit, documented approval from all customers whose data is affected, and must comply with all legal and regulatory requirements for scrubbing of sensitive data elements.
1	The organization, upon termination of individual employment:  a. Disables information system access within [Assignment: organization-defined time period];  b. Terminates/revokes any authenticators/credentials associated with the individual;  c. Conducts exit interviews that include a discussion of [Assignment: organization-defined information security topics];  d. Retrieves all security-related organizational information system-related property;  e. Retains access to organizational information and information systems formerly controlled by terminated individual; and  f. Notifies [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles] within [Assignment: organization-defined time period].	User access policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for ensuring appropriate identity, entitlement, and access management for all internal corporate and customer (tenant) users with access to data and organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) application interfaces and infrastructure network and systems components. These policies, procedures, processes, and measures must incorporate the following:  • Procedures, supporting roles, and responsibilities for provisioning and de-provisioning user account entitlements following the rule of least privilege based on job function (e.g., internal employee and contingent staff personnel changes, customer-controlled access, suppliers' business relationships, or other third-party business relationships)  • Business case considerations for higher levels of assurance and multi-factor authentication secrets (e.g., management interfaces, key generation, remote access, segregation of duties, emergency access, large-scale provisioning or geographically-distributed deployments, and personnel redundancy for critical systems)  • Access segmentation to sessions and data in multi-tenant architectures by any third party (e.g., provider and/or other customer (tenant))  • Identity trust verification and service-to-service application (API) and information processing interoperability (e.g., SSO and federation)  • Account credential lifecycle management from instantiation through revocation  • Account credential and/or identity store minimization or re-use when feasible  • Authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules for access to data and sessions (e.g., encryption and strong/multi-factor, expireable, non-shared authentication secrets)  • Permissions and supporting capabilities for customer (tenant) controls over authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules for access to data and sessions  • Adherence to applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance requirements
0	The organization provides basic security awareness training to information system users (including managers, senior executives, and contractors):  a. As part of initial training for new users;  b. When required by information system changes; and  c. [Assignment: organization-defined frequency] thereafter.	Employment agreements shall incorporate provisions and/or terms for adherence to established information governance and security policies and must be signed by newly hired or on-boarded workforce personnel (e.g., full or part-time employee or contingent staff) prior to granting workforce personnel user access to corporate facilities, resources, and assets.
0	The information system separates information flows logically or physically using [Assignment: organization-defined mechanisms and/or techniques] to accomplish [Assignment: organization- defined required separations by types of information].	The provider shall make security incident information available to all affected customers and providers periodically through electronic methods (e.g., portals).
0	• Will any of the cloud provider’s services be outsourced?	Aligned with the enterprise-wide framework, formal risk assessments shall be performed at least annually or at planned intervals, (and in conjunction with any changes to information systems) to determine the likelihood and impact of all identified risks using qualitative and quantitative methods. The likelihood and impact associated with inherent and residual risk shall be determined independently, considering all risk categories (e.g., audit results, threat and vulnerability analysis, and regulatory compliance).
0	The organization ensures that individuals accessing an information system processing, storing, or transmitting information requiring special protection:  (a)   Have valid access authorizations that are demonstrated by assigned official government duties; and  (b)   Satisfy [Assignment: organization-defined additional personnel screening criteria].	The organization ensures that individuals accessing an information system processing, storing, or transmitting information requiring special protection:  (a)   Have valid access authorizations that are demonstrated by assigned official government duties; and  (b)   Satisfy [Assignment: organization-defined additional personnel screening criteria].
1	Compare all network device configuration against approved security configurations defined for each network device in use and alert when any deviations are discovered.	The provider shall ensure the integrity of all virtual machine images at all times. Any changes made to virtual machine images must be logged and an alert raised regardless of their running state (e.g., dormant, off, or running). The results of a change or move of an image and the subsequent validation of the image's integrity must be immediately available to customers through electronic methods (e.g., portals or alerts).
1	When operating platforms are changed, business critical applications shall be reviewed and tested to ensure there is no adverse impact on organizational operations or security.	The mobile device policy shall require the use of encryption either for the entire device or for data identified as sensitive on all mobile devices, and shall be enforced through technology controls.
0	• Who holds the access keys?	User access shall be authorized and revalidated for entitlement appropriateness, at planned intervals, by the organization's business leadership or other accountable business role or function supported by evidence to demonstrate the organization is adhering to the rule of least privilege based on job function. For identified access violations, remediation must follow established user access policies and procedures.
1	Administer user accounts, including additions, deletions, and modifications.	Timely de-provisioning (revocation or modification) of user access to data and organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) applications, infrastructure systems, and network components, shall be implemented as per established policies and procedures and based on user's change in status (e.g., termination of employment or other business relationship, job change, or transfer). Upon request, provider shall inform customer (tenant) of these changes, especially if customer (tenant) data is used as part the service and/or customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of control.
0	The organization:  a. Develops, documents, and disseminates to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]:    1. A media protection policy that addresses purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment, coordination among organizational entities, and compliance; and    2. Procedures to facilitate the implementation of the media protection policy and associated media protection controls; and  b. Reviews and updates the current:    1. Media protection policy [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and    2. Media protection procedures [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	The provider shall have a documented mobile device policy that includes a documented definition for mobile devices and the acceptable usage and requirements for all mobile devices. The provider shall post and communicate the policy and requirements through the company's security awareness and training program.
1	A visitor log is used to maintain a physical audit trail of visitor activity to the facility as well as computer rooms and data centers where cardholder data is stored or transmitted.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes implemented, for maintaining a safe and secure working environment in offices, rooms, facilities, and secure areas storing sensitive information.
1	Visitors are asked to surrender the badge or identification before leaving the facility or at the date of expiration.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to restrict the installation of unauthorized software on organizationally-owned or managed user end-point devices (e.g., issued workstations, laptops, and mobile devices) and IT infrastructure network and systems components.
0	• Are all utilities (electricity, water, etc) capable of supporting your environment? o How often is this re-evaluated and tested? 	Executive and line management shall take formal action to support information security through clearly-documented direction and commitment, and shall ensure the action has been assigned.
1	All information and assets associated with information processing systems shall be owned by a designated part of the organization.	All data shall be designated with stewardship, with assigned responsibilities defined, documented, and communicated.
1	A policy on the use of cryptographic controls for protection of information shall be developed and implemented.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to protect wireless network environments, including the following:  • Perimeter firewalls implemented and configured to restrict unauthorized traffic  • Security settings enabled with strong encryption for authentication and transmission, replacing vendor default settings (e.g., encryption keys, passwords, and SNMP community strings)  • User access to wireless network devices restricted to authorized personnel  • The capability to detect the presence of unauthorized (rogue) wireless network devices for a timely disconnect from the network
0	The organization includes as part of security control assessments, [Assignment: organization- defined frequency], [Selection: announced; unannounced], [Selection (one or more): in-depth monitoring; vulnerability scanning; malicious user testing; insider threat assessment; performance/load testing; [Assignment: organization-defined other forms of security assessment]].	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to restrict the installation of unauthorized software on organizationally-owned or managed user end-point devices (e.g., issued workstations, laptops, and mobile devices) and IT infrastructure network and systems components.
1	Changes to the organization, business processes, information processing facilities and systems that affect information security shall be controlled.	Ingress and egress points such as service areas and other points where unauthorized personnel may enter the premises shall be monitored, controlled and, if possible, isolated from data storage and processing facilities to prevent unauthorized data corruption, compromise, and loss.
1	Data input to applications and databases shall be validated to ensure that this data is correct and appropriate.	Applications and programming interfaces (APIs) shall be designed, developed, deployed, and tested in accordance with leading industry standards (e.g., OWASP for web applications) and adhere to applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance obligations.
0	Equipment shall be protected from power failures and other disruptions caused by failures in supporting utilities.	The BYOD policy and supporting awareness training clearly states the approved applications, application stores, and application extensions and plugins that may be used for BYOD usage.
0	All information security responsibilities shall be defined and allocated.	Keys must have identifiable owners (binding keys to identities) and there shall be key management policies.
1	Information involved in application services passing over public networks shall be protected from fraudulent activity, contract dispute and unauthorized disclosure and modification.	Network environments and virtual instances shall be designed and configured to restrict and monitor traffic between trusted and untrusted connections. These configurations shall be reviewed at least annually, and supported by a documented justification for use for all allowed services, protocols, ports, and by compensating controls.
1	Establish and implement firewall and router configuration standards that include the following:	Baseline security requirements shall be established for developed or acquired, organizationally-owned or managed, physical or virtual, applications and infrastructure system and network components that comply with applicable legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations. Deviations from standard baseline configurations must be authorized following change management policies and procedures prior to deployment, provisioning, or use. Compliance with security baseline requirements must be reassessed at least annually unless an alternate frequency has been established and authorized based on business needs.
0	Additional requirement for service providers only: Perform reviews at least quarterly to confirm personnel are following security policies and operational procedures. Reviews must cover the following processes:  Daily log reviews  Firewall rule-set reviews  Applying configuration standards to new systems  Responding to security alerts  Change management processes	Additional requirement for service providers only: Perform reviews at least quarterly to confirm personnel are following security policies and operational procedures. Reviews must cover the following processes:  Daily log reviews  Firewall rule-set reviews  Applying configuration standards to new systems  Responding to security alerts  Change management processes
1	Perform automated port scans on a regular basis against all systems and alert if unauthorized ports are detected on a system.	Each operating system shall be hardened to provide only necessary ports, protocols, and services to meet business needs and have in place supporting technical controls such as: antivirus, file integrity monitoring, and logging as part of their baseline operating build standard or template.
0	Install the latest stable version of any securityrelated updates on all network devices.	Providers shall review the risk management and governance processes of their partners so that practices are consistent and aligned to account for risks inherited from other members of that partner's cloud supply chain.
1	The information system implements multifactor authentication for network access to non- privileged accounts. 	User access policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for ensuring appropriate identity, entitlement, and access management for all internal corporate and customer (tenant) users with access to data and organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) application interfaces and infrastructure network and systems components. These policies, procedures, processes, and measures must incorporate the following:  • Procedures, supporting roles, and responsibilities for provisioning and de-provisioning user account entitlements following the rule of least privilege based on job function (e.g., internal employee and contingent staff personnel changes, customer-controlled access, suppliers' business relationships, or other third-party business relationships)  • Business case considerations for higher levels of assurance and multi-factor authentication secrets (e.g., management interfaces, key generation, remote access, segregation of duties, emergency access, large-scale provisioning or geographically-distributed deployments, and personnel redundancy for critical systems)  • Access segmentation to sessions and data in multi-tenant architectures by any third party (e.g., provider and/or other customer (tenant))  • Identity trust verification and service-to-service application (API) and information processing interoperability (e.g., SSO and federation)  • Account credential lifecycle management from instantiation through revocation  • Account credential and/or identity store minimization or re-use when feasible  • Authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules for access to data and sessions (e.g., encryption and strong/multi-factor, expireable, non-shared authentication secrets)  • Permissions and supporting capabilities for customer (tenant) controls over authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules for access to data and sessions  • Adherence to applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance requirements
1	Control addition, deletion, and modification of user IDs, credentials, and other identifier objects.	Keys must have identifiable owners (binding keys to identities) and there shall be key management policies.
0	The organization controls physical access to information system output devices to prevent unauthorized individuals from obtaining the output.	Third-party service providers shall demonstrate compliance with information security and confidentiality, access control, service definitions, and delivery level agreements included in third-party contracts. Third-party reports, records, and services shall undergo audit and review at least annually to govern and maintain compliance with the service delivery agreements.
0	To prevent unauthorized access to systems and applications.	To prevent unauthorized access to systems and applications.
0	Information processing facilities shall be implemented with redundancy sufficient to meet availability requirements.	To reduce the risks from environmental threats, hazards, and opportunities for unauthorized access, equipment shall be kept away from locations subject to high probability environmental risks and supplemented by redundant equipment located at a reasonable distance.
1	When operating platforms are changed, business critical applications shall be reviewed and tested to ensure there is no adverse impact on organizational operations or security.	Production and non-production environments shall be separated to prevent unauthorized access or changes to information assets. Separation of the environments may include: stateful inspection firewalls, domain/realm authentication sources, and clear segregation of duties for personnel accessing these environments as part of their job duties.
0	Enable anti-exploitation features such as Data Execution Prevention (DEP) or Address Space Layout Randomization (ASLR) that are available in an operating system or deploy appropriate toolkits that can be configured to apply protection to a broader set of applications and executables.	A consistent unified framework for business continuity planning and plan development shall be established, documented, and adopted to ensure all business continuity plans are consistent in addressing priorities for testing, maintenance, and information security requirements.  Requirements for business continuity plans include the following:  • Defined purpose and scope, aligned with relevant dependencies  • Accessible to and understood by those who will use them  • Owned by a named person(s) who is responsible for their review, update, and approval  • Defined lines of communication, roles, and responsibilities  • Detailed recovery procedures, manual work-around, and reference information  • Method for plan invocation
1	Visitors are asked to surrender the badge or identification before leaving the facility or at the date of expiration.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes implemented, for maintaining a safe and secure working environment in offices, rooms, facilities, and secure areas storing sensitive information.
0	The organization: a. Identifies, reports, and corrects information system flaws; b. Tests software and firmware updates related to flaw remediation for effectiveness and potential side effects before installation; c. Installs security-relevant software and firmware updates within [Assignment: organization- defined time period] of the release of the updates; and d. Incorporates flaw remediation into the organizational configuration management process. Supplemental Guidance:  Organizations identify information systems affected by announced software flaws including potential vulnerabilities resulting from those flaws, and report this information to designated organizational personnel with information security responsibilities. Security-relevant software updates include, for example, patches, service packs, hot fixes, and anti-virus signatures. Organizations also address flaws discovered during security assessments, continuous monitoring, incident response activities, and system error handling. Organizations take advantage of available resources such as the Common Weakness Enumeration (CWE) or Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVE) databases in remediating flaws discovered in organizational information systems. By incorporating flaw remediation into ongoing configuration management processes, required/anticipated remediation actions can be tracked and verified. Flaw remediation actions that can be tracked and verified include, for example, determining whether organizations follow US-CERT guidance and Information Assurance Vulnerability Alerts. Organization-defined time periods for updating security-relevant software and firmware may vary based on a variety of factors including, for example, the security category of the information system or the criticality of the update (i.e., severity of the vulnerability related to the discovered flaw). Some types of flaw remediation may require more testing than other types. Organizations determine the degree and type of testing needed for the specific type of flaw remediation activity under consideration and also the types of changes that are to be configuration-managed. In some situations, organizations may determine that the testing of software and/or firmware updates is not necessary or practical, for example, when implementing simple anti-virus signature updates. Organizations may also consider in testing decisions, whether security-relevant software or firmware updates are obtained from authorized sources with appropriate digital signatures. Related controls: CA-2, CA-7, CM-3, CM-5, CM-8, MA-2, IR-4, RA-5, SA-10, SA-11, SI-11.	Policies and procedures shall be established and maintained in support of data security to include (confidentiality, integrity, and availability) across multiple system interfaces, jurisdictions, and business functions to prevent improper disclosure, alteration, or destruction.
0	Additional requirement for service providers only: Service providers with remote access to customer premises (for example, for support of POS systems or servers) must use a unique authentication credential (such as a password/phrase) for each customer.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for appropriate IT governance and service management to ensure appropriate planning, delivery, and support of the organization's IT capabilities supporting business functions, workforce, and/or customers based on industry acceptable standards (i.e., ITIL v4 and COBIT 5). Additionally, policies and procedures shall include defined roles and responsibilities supported by regular workforce training.
0	The organization's approach to managing information security and its implementation (i.e. control objectives, controls, policies, processes and procedures for information security) shall be reviewed independently at planned intervals or when significant changes occur.	Data input and output integrity routines (i.e., reconciliation and edit checks) shall be implemented for application interfaces and databases to prevent manual or systematic processing errors, corruption of data, or misuse.
0	Verify user identity before modifying any authentication credential—for example, performing password resets, provisioning new tokens, or generating new keys.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for defining and adhering to the retention period of any critical asset as per established policies and procedures, as well as applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance obligations. Backup and recovery measures shall be incorporated as part of business continuity planning and tested accordingly for effectiveness.
1	• What checks are made on the identity of user accounts at registration? Are any standards followed? For example, the e-Government Interoperability Framework? o Are there different levels of identity checks based on the resources required? 	User access policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for ensuring appropriate identity, entitlement, and access management for all internal corporate and customer (tenant) users with access to data and organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) application interfaces and infrastructure network and systems components. These policies, procedures, processes, and measures must incorporate the following:  • Procedures, supporting roles, and responsibilities for provisioning and de-provisioning user account entitlements following the rule of least privilege based on job function (e.g., internal employee and contingent staff personnel changes, customer-controlled access, suppliers' business relationships, or other third-party business relationships)  • Business case considerations for higher levels of assurance and multi-factor authentication secrets (e.g., management interfaces, key generation, remote access, segregation of duties, emergency access, large-scale provisioning or geographically-distributed deployments, and personnel redundancy for critical systems)  • Access segmentation to sessions and data in multi-tenant architectures by any third party (e.g., provider and/or other customer (tenant))  • Identity trust verification and service-to-service application (API) and information processing interoperability (e.g., SSO and federation)  • Account credential lifecycle management from instantiation through revocation  • Account credential and/or identity store minimization or re-use when feasible  • Authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules for access to data and sessions (e.g., encryption and strong/multi-factor, expireable, non-shared authentication secrets)  • Permissions and supporting capabilities for customer (tenant) controls over authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules for access to data and sessions  • Adherence to applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance requirements
1	The organization:  a. Establishes and documents usage restrictions, configuration/connection requirements, and implementation guidance for each type of remote access allowed; and  b. Authorizes remote access to the information system prior to allowing such connections.	Automated equipment identification shall be used as a method of connection authentication. Location-aware technologies may be used to validate connection authentication integrity based on known equipment location.
0	To ensure  that information  receives  an  appropriate level of protection  in  accordance with  its importance to the organization.	To ensure  that information  receives  an  appropriate level of protection  in  accordance with  its importance to the organization.
1	Encrypt all sensitive information in transit.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for the use of encryption protocols for protection of sensitive data in storage (e.g., file servers, databases, and end-user workstations), data in use (memory), and data in transmission (e.g., system interfaces, over public networks, and electronic messaging) as per applicable legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations.
1	Deploy anti-virus software on all systems commonly affected by malicious software (particularly personal computers and servers).	Each operating system shall be hardened to provide only necessary ports, protocols, and services to meet business needs and have in place supporting technical controls such as: antivirus, file integrity monitoring, and logging as part of their baseline operating build standard or template.
1	All configuration rules that allow traffic to flow through network devices should be documented in a configuration management system with a specific business reason for each rule, a specific individual’s name responsible for that business need, and an expected duration of the need.	Network architecture diagrams shall clearly identify high-risk environments and data flows that may have legal compliance impacts. Technical measures shall be implemented and shall apply defense-in-depth techniques (e.g., deep packet analysis, traffic throttling, and black-holing) for detection and timely response to network-based attacks associated with anomalous ingress or egress traffic patterns (e.g., MAC spoofing and ARP poisoning attacks) and/or distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) attacks.
0	Access points such as delivery and loading areas and other points where unauthorized persons may enter the premises shall be controlled and, if possible, isolated from information processing facilities to avoid unauthorized access.	BYOD and/or company-owned devices are configured to require an automatic lockout screen, and the requirement shall be enforced through technical controls.
1	The organization's approach to managing information security and its implementation (i.e. control objectives, controls, policies, processes and procedures for information security) shall be reviewed independently at planned intervals or when significant changes occur.	External business partners shall adhere to the same policies and procedures for change management, release, and testing as internal developers within the organization (e.g., ITIL service management processes).
0	Implement incident response procedures in the event unauthorized wireless access points are detected.	Risks shall be mitigated to an acceptable level. Acceptance levels based on risk criteria shall be established and documented in accordance with reasonable resolution time frames and stakeholder approval.
0	The organization:  a. Conducts an assessment of risk, including the likelihood and magnitude of harm, from the unauthorized access, use, disclosure, disruption, modification, or destruction of the information system and the information it processes, stores, or transmits;  b. Documents risk assessment results in [Selection: security plan; risk assessment report; [Assignment: organization-defined document]];  c. Reviews risk assessment results [Assignment: organization-defined frequency];  d. Disseminates risk assessment results to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]; and  e. Updates the risk assessment [Assignment: organization-defined frequency] or whenever there are significant changes to the information system or environment of operation (including the identification of new threats and vulnerabilities), or other conditions that may impact the security state of the system.	Third-party service providers shall demonstrate compliance with information security and confidentiality, access control, service definitions, and delivery level agreements included in third-party contracts. Third-party reports, records, and services shall undergo audit and review at least annually to govern and maintain compliance with the service delivery agreements.
0	All relevant legislative statutory, regulatory, contractual requirements and the organization's approach to meet these requirements shall be explicitly identified, documented and kept up to date for each information system and the organization.	Proper forensic procedures, including chain of custody, are required for the presentation of evidence to support potential legal action subject to the relevant jurisdiction after an information security incident. Upon notification, customers and/or other external business partners impacted by a security breach shall be given the opportunity to participate as is legally permissible in the forensic investigation.
0	The information system prevents the installation of [Assignment: organization-defined software and firmware components] without verification that the component has been digitally signed using a certificate that is recognized and approved by the organization.	Supply chain agreements (e.g., SLAs) between providers and customers (tenants) shall incorporate at least the following mutually-agreed upon provisions and/or terms:  • Scope of business relationship and services offered (e.g., customer (tenant) data acquisition, exchange and usage, feature sets and functionality, personnel and infrastructure network and systems components for service delivery and support, roles and responsibilities of provider and customer (tenant) and any subcontracted or outsourced business relationships, physical geographical location of hosted services, and any known regulatory compliance considerations)  • Information security requirements, provider and customer (tenant) primary points of contact for the duration of the business relationship, and references to detailed supporting and relevant business processes and technical measures implemented to enable effectively governance, risk management, assurance and legal, statutory and regulatory compliance obligations by all impacted business relationships  • Notification and/or pre-authorization of any changes controlled by the provider with customer (tenant) impacts  • Timely notification of a security incident (or confirmed breach) to all customers (tenants) and other business relationships impacted (i.e., up- and down-stream impacted supply chain)  • Assessment and independent verification of compliance with agreement provisions and/or terms (e.g., industry-acceptable certification, attestation audit report, or equivalent forms of assurance) without posing an unacceptable business risk of exposure to the organization being assessed  • Expiration of the business relationship and treatment of customer (tenant) data impacted  • Customer (tenant) service-to-service application (API) and data interoperability and portability requirements for application development and information exchange, usage, and integrity persistence
1	The information system protects the [Selection (one or more): confidentiality; integrity] of transmitted information.	The provider shall use secure (e.g., non-clear text and authenticated) standardized network protocols for the import and export of data and to manage the service, and shall make available a document to consumers (tenants) detailing the relevant interoperability and portability standards that are involved.
1	Use either video cameras or access control mechanisms (or both) to monitor individual physical access to sensitive areas. Review collected data and correlate with other entries. Store for at least three months, unless otherwise restricted by law.	Physical security perimeters (e.g., fences, walls, barriers, guards, gates, electronic surveillance, physical authentication mechanisms, reception desks, and security patrols) shall be implemented to safeguard sensitive data and information systems.
0	Ensure that security policies and operational procedures for restricting access to cardholder data are documented, in use, and known to all affected parties.	Providers shall review the risk management and governance processes of their partners so that practices are consistent and aligned to account for risks inherited from other members of that partner's cloud supply chain.
1	Privacy and protection of personally identifiable information shall be ensured as required in relevant legislation and regulation where applicable.	Multi-tenant organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) applications, and infrastructure system and network components, shall be designed, developed, deployed, and configured such that provider and customer (tenant) user access is appropriately segmented from other tenant users, based on the following considerations:  • Established policies and procedures  • Isolation of business critical assets and/or sensitive user data, and sessions that mandate stronger internal controls and high levels of assurance  • Compliance with legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations
1	Render PAN unreadable anywhere it is stored (including on portable digital media, backup media, and in logs) by using any of the following approaches:  One-way hashes based on strong cryptography, (hash must be of the entire PAN)  Truncation (hashing cannot be used to replace the truncated segment of PAN)  Index tokens and pads (pads must be securely stored)  Strong cryptography with associated key-management processes and procedures.	External business partners shall adhere to the same policies and procedures for change management, release, and testing as internal developers within the organization (e.g., ITIL service management processes).
0	• Do you only allow authorised maintenance or repair staff onto the site? o How do you check their identity? 	Providers shall assure reasonable information security across their information supply chain by performing an annual review. The review shall include all partners/third party-providers upon which their information supply chain depends on.
1	Segment the network based on the label or classification level of the information stored on the servers, locate all sensitive information on separated Virtual Local Area Networks (VLANs).	Secured and encrypted communication channels shall be used when migrating physical servers, applications, or data to virtualized servers and, where possible, shall use a network segregated from production-level networks for such migrations.
0	Ensure that backups are properly protected via physical security or encryption when they are stored, as well as when they are moved across the network. This includes remote backups and cloud services.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting processes and technical measures implemented, for timely detection of vulnerabilities within organizationally-owned or managed applications, infrastructure network and system components (e.g., network vulnerability assessment, penetration testing) to ensure the efficiency of implemented security controls. A risk-based model for prioritizing remediation of identified vulnerabilities shall be used. Changes shall be managed through a change management process for all vendor-supplied patches, configuration changes, or changes to the organization's internally developed software. Upon request, the provider informs customer (tenant) of policies and procedures and identified weaknesses especially if customer (tenant) data is used as part the service and/or customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of control.
1	Assign access based on individual personnel’s job classification and function.	Access to the organization's own developed applications, program, or object source code, or any other form of intellectual property (IP), and use of proprietary software shall be appropriately restricted following the rule of least privilege based on job function as per established user access policies and procedures.
0	Configure systems to issue a log entry and alert when an account is added to or removed from any group assigned administrative privileges.	Configure systems to issue a log entry and alert when an account is added to or removed from any group assigned administrative privileges.
0	Managers shall regularly review the compliance of information processing and procedures within their area of responsibility with the appropriate security policies, standards and any other security requirements.	Data input and output integrity routines (i.e., reconciliation and edit checks) shall be implemented for application interfaces and databases to prevent manual or systematic processing errors, corruption of data, or misuse.
1	Managers shall regularly review the compliance of information processing and procedures within their area of responsibility with the appropriate security policies, standards and any other security requirements.	Aligned with the enterprise-wide framework, formal risk assessments shall be performed at least annually or at planned intervals, (and in conjunction with any changes to information systems) to determine the likelihood and impact of all identified risks using qualitative and quantitative methods. The likelihood and impact associated with inherent and residual risk shall be determined independently, considering all risk categories (e.g., audit results, threat and vulnerability analysis, and regulatory compliance).
0	Entities with existing implementations (other than as allowed in A2.1) that use SSL and/or early TLS must have a formal Risk Mitigation and Migration Plan in place.	Multi-tenant organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) applications, and infrastructure system and network components, shall be designed, developed, deployed, and configured such that provider and customer (tenant) user access is appropriately segmented from other tenant users, based on the following considerations:  • Established policies and procedures  • Isolation of business critical assets and/or sensitive user data, and sessions that mandate stronger internal controls and high levels of assurance  • Compliance with legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations
0	Management shall actively support security within the organization through clear direction, demonstrated commitment, explicit assignment, and acknowledgment of information security responsibilities.	Secured and encrypted communication channels shall be used when migrating physical servers, applications, or data to virtualized servers and, where possible, shall use a network segregated from production-level networks for such migrations.
0	Implement a methodology for the timely identification of attack patterns and undesirable behavior across systems—for example, using coordinated manual reviews and/or centrally managed or automated log- correlation tools—to include at least the following:  Identification of anomalies or suspicious activity as it occurs  Issuance of timely alerts upon detection of suspicious activity or anomaly to responsible personnel  Response to alerts in accordance with documented response procedures	Implement a methodology for the timely identification of attack patterns and undesirable behavior across systems—for example, using coordinated manual reviews and/or centrally managed or automated log- correlation tools—to include at least the following:  Identification of anomalies or suspicious activity as it occurs  Issuance of timely alerts upon detection of suspicious activity or anomaly to responsible personnel  Response to alerts in accordance with documented response procedures
1	Ensure that all system data is automatically backed up on a regular basis.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for the use of encryption protocols for protection of sensitive data in storage (e.g., file servers, databases, and end-user workstations), data in use (memory), and data in transmission (e.g., system interfaces, over public networks, and electronic messaging) as per applicable legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations.
1	There shall be a formal documented and implemented user registration and de-registration procedure for granting and revoking access.	Policies and procedures are established for permissible storage and access of identities used for authentication to ensure identities are only accessible based on rules of least privilege and replication limitation only to users explicitly defined as business necessary.
0	Ensure network engineers use a dedicated machine for all administrative tasks or tasks requiring elevated access. This machine shall be segmented from the organization’s primary network and not be allowed Internet access. This machine shall not be used for reading email, composing documents, or surfing the Internet.	Data input and output integrity routines (i.e., reconciliation and edit checks) shall be implemented for application interfaces and databases to prevent manual or systematic processing errors, corruption of data, or misuse.
1	Operating procedures shall be documented and made available to all users who need them.	Information system documentation (e.g., administrator and user guides, and architecture diagrams) shall be made available to authorized personnel to ensure the following:  • Configuring, installing, and operating the information system  • Effectively using the system’s security features
0	Current network diagram that identifies all connections between the cardholder data environment and other networks, including any wireless networks	A security awareness training program shall be established for all contractors, third-party users, and employees of the organization and mandated when appropriate. All individuals with access to organizational data shall receive appropriate awareness training and regular updates in organizational procedures, processes, and policies relating to their professional function relative to the organization.
0	The organization:  a. Develops a security assessment plan that describes the scope of the assessment including:    1. Security controls and control enhancements under assessment;    2. Assessment procedures to be used to determine security control effectiveness; and    3. Assessment environment, assessment team, and assessment roles and responsibilities;  b. Assesses the security controls in the information system and its environment of operation [Assignment: organization-defined frequency] to determine the extent to which the controls are implemented correctly, operating as intended, and producing the desired outcome with respect to meeting established security requirements;  c. Produces a security assessment report that documents the results of the assessment; and  d. Provides the results of the security control assessment to [Assignment: organization-defined individuals or roles].	All personnel shall be made aware of their roles and responsibilities for:  • Maintaining awareness and compliance with established policies and procedures and applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance obligations.  • Maintaining a safe and secure working environment
1	Utilize application whitelisting technology on all assets to ensure that only authorized software executes and all unauthorized software is blocked from executing on assets.	All structured and unstructured data shall be available to the customer and provided to them upon request in an industry-standard format (e.g., .doc, .xls, .pdf, logs, and flat files).
0	The organization requires the developer of the information system, system component, or information system service to employ dynamic code analysis tools to identify common flaws and document the results of the analysis.	The provider shall have a documented mobile device policy that includes a documented definition for mobile devices and the acceptable usage and requirements for all mobile devices. The provider shall post and communicate the policy and requirements through the company's security awareness and training program.
0	Subscribe to URL categorization services to ensure that they are up-to-date with the most recent website category definitions available. Uncategorized sites shall be blocked by default.	The provider shall make security incident information available to all affected customers and providers periodically through electronic methods (e.g., portals).
0	The organization stores backup copies of [Assignment: organization-defined critical information system software and other security-related information] in a separate facility or in a fire-rated container that is not collocated with the operational system.	Internal corporate or customer (tenant) user account credentials shall be restricted as per the following, ensuring appropriate identity, entitlement, and access management and in accordance with established policies and procedures:  • Identity trust verification and service-to-service application (API) and information processing interoperability (e.g., SSO and Federation)  • Account credential lifecycle management from instantiation through revocation  • Account credential and/or identity store minimization or re-use when feasible  • Adherence to industry acceptable and/or regulatory compliant authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules (e.g., strong/multi-factor, expireable, non-shared authentication secrets)
1	The organization responds to information spills by:  a. Identifying the specific information involved in the information system contamination;  b. Alerting [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles] of the information spill using a method of communication not associated with the spill;  c. Isolating the contaminated information system or system component;  d. Eradicating the information from the contaminated information system or component;  e. Identifying other information systems or system components that may have been subsequently contaminated; and  f. Performing other [Assignment: organization-defined actions]. Supplemental Guidance: Information spillage refers to instances where either classified or sensitive information is inadvertently placed on information systems that are not authorized to process such information. Such information spills often occur when information that is initially thought to be of lower sensitivity is transmitted to an information system and then is subsequently determined to be of higher sensitivity. At that point, corrective action is required. The nature of the organizational response is generally based upon the degree of sensitivity of the spilled information (e.g., security category or classification level), the security capabilities of the information system, the specific nature of contaminated storage media, and the access authorizations (e.g., security clearances) of individuals with authorized access to the contaminated system. The methods used to communicate information about the spill after the fact do not involve methods directly associated with the actual spill to minimize the risk of further spreading the contamination before such contamination is isolated and eradicated.	Workforce personnel and external business relationships shall be informed of their responsibilities and, if required, shall consent and/or contractually agree to report all information security events in a timely manner. Information security events shall be reported through predefined communications channels in a timely manner adhering to applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance obligations.
1	Information systems shall be regularly reviewed for compliance with the organization's information security policies and standards.	Anti-malware awareness training, specific to mobile devices, shall be included in the provider's information security awareness training.
1	The organization:  a. Develops, documents, and disseminates to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]:    1. An identification and authentication policy that addresses purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment, coordination among organizational entities, and compliance; and    2. Procedures to facilitate the implementation of the identification and authentication policy and associated identification and authentication controls; and  b. Reviews and updates the current:    1. Identification and authentication policy [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and    2. Identification and authentication procedures [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	The organization's business leadership (or other accountable business role or function) shall review the information security policy at planned intervals or as a result of changes to the organization to ensure its continuing alignment with the security strategy, effectiveness, accuracy, relevance, and applicability to legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance obligations.
1	Background verification checks on all candidates for employment, contractors, and third-party users shall be carried out in accordance with relevant laws, regulations and ethics, and proportional to the business requirements, the classification of the information to be accessed, and the perceived risks.	Pursuant to local laws, regulations, ethics, and contractual constraints, all employment candidates, contractors, and third parties shall be subject to background verification proportional to the data classification to be accessed, the business requirements, and acceptable risk.
1	Ensure that all of the organization’s key systems are backed up as a complete system, through processes such as imaging, to enable the quick recovery of an entire system.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for the use of encryption protocols for protection of sensitive data in storage (e.g., file servers, databases, and end-user workstations), data in use (memory), and data in transmission (e.g., system interfaces, over public networks, and electronic messaging) as per applicable legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations.
0	Alert when users deviate from normal login behavior, such as time-of-day, workstation location and duration.	User access to diagnostic and configuration ports shall be restricted to authorized individuals and applications.
1	Keep cardholder data storage to a minimum by implementing data retention and disposal policies, procedures and processes that include at least the following for all cardholder data (CHD) storage:  Limiting data storage amount and retention time to that which is required for legal, regulatory, and/or business requirements  Specific retention requirements for cardholder data  Processes for secure deletion of data when no longer needed  A quarterly process for identifying and securely deleting stored cardholder data that exceeds defined retention.PCI DSS Requirements	Policies and procedures shall be established with supporting business processes and technical measures implemented for the secure disposal and complete removal of data from all storage media, ensuring data is not recoverable by any computer forensic means.
1	The organization:  a. Scans for vulnerabilities in the information system and hosted applications [Assignment: organization-defined frequency and/or randomly in accordance with organization-defined process] and when new vulnerabilities potentially affecting the system/applications are identified and reported;  b. Employs vulnerability scanning tools and techniques that facilitate interoperability among tools and automate parts of the vulnerability management process by using standards for:    1. Enumerating platforms, software flaws, and improper configurations;    2. Formatting checklists and test procedures; and    3. Measuring vulnerability impact;  c. Analyzes vulnerability scan reports and results from security control assessments;  d. Remediates legitimate vulnerabilities [Assignment: organization-defined response times], in accordance with an organizational assessment of risk; and  e. Shares information obtained from the vulnerability scanning process and security control assessments with [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles] to help eliminate similar vulnerabilities in other information systems (i.e., systemic weaknesses or deficiencies).	Applications and programming interfaces (APIs) shall be designed, developed, deployed, and tested in accordance with leading industry standards (e.g., OWASP for web applications) and adhere to applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance obligations.
1	Utilize centrally managed anti-malware software to continuously monitor and defend each of the organization’s workstations and servers.	A centralized, mobile device management solution shall be deployed to all mobile devices permitted to store, transmit, or process customer data.
1	The organization authorizes access to management of audit functionality to only [Assignment: organization-defined subset of privileged users].	Access to, and use of, audit tools that interact with the organization's information systems shall be appropriately segregated and access restricted to prevent inappropriate disclosure and tampering of log data.
0	Changes to the provision of services, including maintaining and improving existing information security policies, procedures and controls, shall be managed, taking account of the criticality of business systems and processes involved and re-assessment of risks.	Policies and procedures are established for permissible storage and access of identities used for authentication to ensure identities are only accessible based on rules of least privilege and replication limitation only to users explicitly defined as business necessary.
0	Implement a process to immediately detect and alert on critical security control failures. Examples of critical security controls include, but are not limited to:  Firewalls  IDS/IPS  FIM  Anti-virus  Physical access controls  Logical access controls  Audit logging mechanisms  Segmentation controls (if used)	Policies and procedures shall be established to require that unattended workspaces do not have openly visible (e.g., on a desktop) sensitive documents and user computing sessions are disabled after an established period of inactivity.
1	Deliver training to address the skills gap identified to positively impact workforce members’ security behavior.	The BYOD policy and supporting awareness training clearly states the approved applications, application stores, and application extensions and plugins that may be used for BYOD usage.
1	The organization verifies that all components within the authorization boundary of the information system are not duplicated in other information system inventories.	An inventory of all mobile devices used to store and access company data shall be kept and maintained. All changes to the status of these devices (i.e., operating system and patch levels, lost or decommissioned status, and to whom the device is assigned or approved for usage (BYOD)) will be included for each device in the inventory.
1	A formal policy shall be in place, and appropriate security measures shall be adopted to protect against the risks of using mobile computing and communication devices.	The mobile device policy shall require the use of encryption either for the entire device or for data identified as sensitive on all mobile devices, and shall be enforced through technology controls.
1	Managers shall regularly review the compliance of information processing and procedures within their area of responsibility with the appropriate security policies, standards and any other security requirements.	All cloud-based services used by the company's mobile devices or BYOD shall be pre-approved for usage and the storage of company business data.
1	Configure system security parameters to prevent misuse.	Network environments and virtual instances shall be designed and configured to restrict and monitor traffic between trusted and untrusted connections. These configurations shall be reviewed at least annually, and supported by a documented justification for use for all allowed services, protocols, ports, and by compensating controls.
0	• Is the SaaS access control fine grained and can it be customised to your organisations policy?	Providers shall review the risk management and governance processes of their partners so that practices are consistent and aligned to account for risks inherited from other members of that partner's cloud supply chain.
1	The organization's approach to managing information security and its implementation (i.e. control objectives, controls, policies, processes and procedures for information security) shall be reviewed independently at planned intervals or when significant changes occur.	Independent reviews and assessments shall be performed at least annually to ensure that the organization addresses nonconformities of established policies, standards, procedures, and compliance obligations.
1	Ensure that security policies and operational procedures for security monitoring and testing are documented, in use, and known to all affected parties.	Policies and procedures shall be established and maintained in support of data security to include (confidentiality, integrity, and availability) across multiple system interfaces, jurisdictions, and business functions to prevent improper disclosure, alteration, or destruction.
0	Ensure that security policies and operational procedures for managing vendor defaults and other security parameters are documented, in use, and known to all affected parties.	Workforce personnel and external business relationships shall be informed of their responsibilities and, if required, shall consent and/or contractually agree to report all information security events in a timely manner. Information security events shall be reported through predefined communications channels in a timely manner adhering to applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance obligations.
1	Develop configuration standards for all system components. Assure that these standards address all known security vulnerabilities and are consistent with industry-accepted system hardening standards.	Baseline security requirements shall be established for developed or acquired, organizationally-owned or managed, physical or virtual, applications and infrastructure system and network components that comply with applicable legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations. Deviations from standard baseline configurations must be authorized following change management policies and procedures prior to deployment, provisioning, or use. Compliance with security baseline requirements must be reassessed at least annually unless an alternate frequency has been established and authorized based on business needs.
1	The organization develops, documents, and implements a configuration management plan for the information system that:  a. Addresses roles, responsibilities, and configuration management processes and procedures;  b. Establishes a process for identifying configuration items throughout the system development life cycle and for managing the configuration of the configuration items;  c. Defines the configuration items for the information system and places the configuration items under configuration management; and  d. Protects the configuration management plan from unauthorized disclosure and modification.	Changes to mobile device operating systems, patch levels, and/or applications shall be managed through the company's change management processes.
1	Deploy a change-detection mechanism (for example, file-integrity monitoring tools) to alert personnel to unauthorized modification (including changes, additions, and deletions) of critical system files, configuration files, or content files; and configure the software to perform critical file comparisons at least weekly.	Higher levels of assurance are required for protection, retention, and lifecycle management of audit logs, adhering to applicable legal, statutory or regulatory compliance obligations and providing unique user access accountability to detect potentially suspicious network behaviors and/or file integrity anomalies, and to support forensic investigative capabilities in the event of a security breach.
1	Procedures for working in secure areas shall be designed and applied.	Policies and procedures shall be established to require that unattended workspaces do not have openly visible (e.g., on a desktop) sensitive documents and user computing sessions are disabled after an established period of inactivity.
1	All relevant legislative statutory, regulatory, contractual requirements and the organization's approach to meet these requirements shall be explicitly identified, documented and kept up to date for each information system and the organization.	The provider shall use open and published APIs to ensure support for interoperability between components and to facilitate migrating applications.
1	Ensure that security policies and operational procedures for restricting access to cardholder data are documented, in use, and known to all affected parties.	User access policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for restricting user access as per defined segregation of duties to address business risks associated with a user-role conflict of interest.
0	The organization permits authorized individuals to use an external information system to access the information system or to process, store, or transmit organization-controlled information only when the organization:  (a)   Verifies the implementation of required security controls on the external system as specified in the organization’s information security policy and security plan; or  (b)   Retains approved information system connection or processing agreements with the organizational entity hosting the external information system.	The organization's business leadership (or other accountable business role or function) shall review the information security policy at planned intervals or as a result of changes to the organization to ensure its continuing alignment with the security strategy, effectiveness, accuracy, relevance, and applicability to legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance obligations.
1	Information systems shall be regularly reviewed for compliance with the organization's information security policies and standards.	Password policies, applicable to mobile devices, shall be documented and enforced through technical controls on all company devices or devices approved for BYOD usage, and shall prohibit the changing of password/PIN lengths and authentication requirements.
1	Managers shall ensure that all security procedures within their area of responsibility are carried out correctly to achieve compliance with security policies and standards.	Roles and responsibilities of contractors, employees, and third-party users shall be documented as they relate to information assets and security.
0	The organization employs assessors or assessment teams with [Assignment: organization-defined level of independence] to conduct security control assessments.	Anti-malware awareness training, specific to mobile devices, shall be included in the provider's information security awareness training.
0	Information systems shall be regularly reviewed for compliance with the organization's information security policies and standards.	Upon termination of workforce personnel and/or expiration of external business relationships, all organizationally-owned assets shall be returned within an established period.
0	Utilize centrally managed anti-malware software to continuously monitor and defend each of the organization’s workstations and servers.	Prior to granting customers access to data, assets, and information systems, identified security, contractual, and regulatory requirements for customer access shall be addressed.
1	Manage all network devices using multi-factor authentication and encrypted sessions.	Secured and encrypted communication channels shall be used when migrating physical servers, applications, or data to virtualized servers and, where possible, shall use a network segregated from production-level networks for such migrations.
0	All information security responsibilities shall be defined and allocated.	Business continuity and security incident response plans shall be subject to testing at planned intervals or upon significant organizational or environmental changes. Incident response plans shall involve impacted customers (tenant) and other business relationships that represent critical intra-supply chain business process dependencies.
0	Use a wireless intrusion detection system (WIDS) to detect and alert on unauthorized wireless access points connected to the network.	Use a wireless intrusion detection system (WIDS) to detect and alert on unauthorized wireless access points connected to the network.
0	Identity or name of affected data, system component, or resource.	All structured and unstructured data shall be available to the customer and provided to them upon request in an industry-standard format (e.g., .doc, .xls, .pdf, logs, and flat files).
0	Changes to systems within the development lifecycle shall be controlled by the use of formal change control procedures.	Ingress and egress to secure areas shall be constrained and monitored by physical access control mechanisms to ensure that only authorized personnel are allowed access.
0	Risk Assessments shall be performed to identify and quantify risks.	Applications and programming interfaces (APIs) shall be designed, developed, deployed, and tested in accordance with leading industry standards (e.g., OWASP for web applications) and adhere to applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance obligations.
0	Utilize a passive discovery tool to identify devices connected to the organization’s network and automatically update the organization’s hardware asset inventory.	Ingress and egress to secure areas shall be constrained and monitored by physical access control mechanisms to ensure that only authorized personnel are allowed access.
0	When operating platforms are changed, business critical applications shall be reviewed and tested to ensure there is no adverse impact on organizational operations or security.	Policies and procedures shall be established with supporting business processes and technical measures implemented for the secure disposal and complete removal of data from all storage media, ensuring data is not recoverable by any computer forensic means.
0	Develop usage policies for critical technologies and define proper use of these technologies.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for equipment maintenance ensuring continuity and availability of operations and support personnel.
1	Utilize application whitelisting technology on all assets to ensure that only authorized software executes and all unauthorized software is blocked from executing on assets.	The provider shall use open and published APIs to ensure support for interoperability between components and to facilitate migrating applications.
1	Encrypt all sensitive information in transit.	Keys must have identifiable owners (binding keys to identities) and there shall be key management policies.
0	Use client certificates to authenticate hardware assets connecting to the organization’s trusted network.	Physical protection against damage from natural causes and disasters, as well as deliberate attacks, including fire, flood, atmospheric electrical discharge, solar induced geomagnetic storm, wind, earthquake, tsunami, explosion, nuclear accident, volcanic activity, biological hazard, civil unrest, mudslide, tectonic activity, and other forms of natural or man-made disaster shall be anticipated, designed, and have countermeasures applied.
0	A formal policy shall be in place, and appropriate security measures shall be adopted to protect against the risks of using mobile computing and communication devices.	Physical access to information assets and functions by users and support personnel shall be restricted.
0	Send the media by secured courier or other delivery method that can be accurately tracked.	Authorization must be obtained prior to relocation or transfer of hardware, software, or data to an offsite premises.
1	The organization:  a. Develops, documents, and disseminates to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]:    1. A system maintenance policy that addresses purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment, coordination among organizational entities, and compliance; and    2. Procedures to facilitate the implementation of the system maintenance policy and associated system maintenance controls; and  b. Reviews and updates the current:    1. System maintenance policy [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and    2. System maintenance procedures [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	The organization's business leadership (or other accountable business role or function) shall review the information security policy at planned intervals or as a result of changes to the organization to ensure its continuing alignment with the security strategy, effectiveness, accuracy, relevance, and applicability to legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance obligations.
0	The organization:  a. Develops, documents, and disseminates to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]:    1. A system maintenance policy that addresses purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment, coordination among organizational entities, and compliance; and    2. Procedures to facilitate the implementation of the system maintenance policy and associated system maintenance controls; and  b. Reviews and updates the current:    1. System maintenance policy [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and    2. System maintenance procedures [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	Protection measures shall be put into place to react to natural and man-made threats based upon a geographically-specific business impact assessment.
0	Uninstall or disable any unauthorized browser or email client plugins or add-on applications.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to inventory, document, and maintain data flows for data that is resident (permanently or temporarily) within the service's geographically distributed (physical and virtual) applications and infrastructure network and systems components and/or shared with other third parties to ascertain any regulatory, statutory, or supply chain agreement (SLA) compliance impact, and to address any other business risks associated with the data. Upon request, provider shall inform customer (tenant) of compliance impact and risk, especially if customer data is used as part of the services.
1	The information system:  a. Uses internal system clocks to generate time stamps for audit records; and  b. Records time stamps for audit records that can be mapped to Coordinated Universal Time (UTC) or Greenwich Mean Time (GMT) and meets [Assignment: organization-defined granularity of time measurement].	A reliable and mutually agreed upon external time source shall be used to synchronize the system clocks of all relevant information processing systems to facilitate tracing and reconstitution of activity timelines.
1	All access to any database containing cardholder data (including access by applications, administrators, and all other users) is restricted as follows:  All user access to, user queries of, and user actions on databases are through programmatic methods.  Only database administrators have the ability to directly access or query databases.  Application IDs for database applications can only be used by the applications (and not by individual users or other non-application processes).	Policies and procedures shall be established and maintained in support of data security to include (confidentiality, integrity, and availability) across multiple system interfaces, jurisdictions, and business functions to prevent improper disclosure, alteration, or destruction.
1	The information security related requirements shall be included in the requirements for new information systems or enhancements to existing information systems.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to ensure the development and/or acquisition of new data, physical or virtual applications, infrastructure network, and systems components, or any corporate, operations and/or data center facilities have been pre-authorized by the organization's business leadership or other accountable business role or function.
0	Documented change approval by authorized parties.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for the use of encryption protocols for protection of sensitive data in storage (e.g., file servers, databases, and end-user workstations), data in use (memory), and data in transmission (e.g., system interfaces, over public networks, and electronic messaging) as per applicable legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations.
0	The organization requires the developer of the information system, system component, or information system service to identify early in the system development life cycle, the functions, ports, protocols, and services intended for organizational use.	The organization requires the developer of the information system, system component, or information system service to identify early in the system development life cycle, the functions, ports, protocols, and services intended for organizational use.
1	Maintain strict control over the internal or external distribution of any kind of media, including the following:	Policies and procedures shall be established for the labeling, handling, and security of data and objects which contain data. Mechanisms for label inheritance shall be implemented for objects that act as aggregate containers for data.
1	Information systems shall be regularly reviewed for compliance with the organization's information security policies and standards.	Changes to mobile device operating systems, patch levels, and/or applications shall be managed through the company's change management processes.
0	Utilize a passive discovery tool to identify devices connected to the organization’s network and automatically update the organization’s hardware asset inventory.	Utilize a passive discovery tool to identify devices connected to the organization’s network and automatically update the organization’s hardware asset inventory.
1	Generation of strong cryptographic keys	Platform and data-appropriate encryption (e.g., AES-256) in open/validated formats and standard algorithms shall be required. Keys shall not be stored in the cloud (i.e., at the cloud provider in question), but maintained by the cloud consumer or trusted key management provider. Key management and key usage shall be separated duties.
1	All items of equipment containing storage media shall be checked to ensure that any covered information and licensed software has been removed or securely overwritten prior to disposal.	Policies and procedures shall be established with supporting business processes and technical measures implemented for the secure disposal and complete removal of data from all storage media, ensuring data is not recoverable by any computer forensic means.
0	When operating platforms are changed, business critical applications shall be reviewed and tested to ensure there is no adverse impact on organizational operations or security.	User access shall be authorized and revalidated for entitlement appropriateness, at planned intervals, by the organization's business leadership or other accountable business role or function supported by evidence to demonstrate the organization is adhering to the rule of least privilege based on job function. For identified access violations, remediation must follow established user access policies and procedures.
0	Initialization, stopping, or pausing of the audit logs	All personnel shall be made aware of their roles and responsibilities for:  • Maintaining awareness and compliance with established policies and procedures and applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance obligations.  • Maintaining a safe and secure working environment
1	Security shall be applied to offsite assets taking into account the different risks of working outside the organization's premises.	Authorization must be obtained prior to relocation or transfer of hardware, software, or data to an offsite premises.
0	Encrypt all sensitive information in transit.	Production data shall not be replicated or used in non-production environments. Any use of customer data in non-production environments requires explicit, documented approval from all customers whose data is affected, and must comply with all legal and regulatory requirements for scrubbing of sensitive data elements.
0	• What provisions exist in the event of the theft of a customer’s credentials (detection, revocation, evidence for actions)?	The company shall have a documented application validation process to test for mobile device, operating system, and application compatibility issues.
1	Type of event	Higher levels of assurance are required for protection, retention, and lifecycle management of audit logs, adhering to applicable legal, statutory or regulatory compliance obligations and providing unique user access accountability to detect potentially suspicious network behaviors and/or file integrity anomalies, and to support forensic investigative capabilities in the event of a security breach.
0	All relevant legislative statutory, regulatory, contractual requirements and the organization's approach to meet these requirements shall be explicitly identified, documented and kept up to date for each information system and the organization.	The provider shall make security incident information available to all affected customers and providers periodically through electronic methods (e.g., portals).
0	Appropriate authentication methods shall be used to control access by remote users.	Appropriate authentication methods shall be used to control access by remote users.
0	Only use up-to-date and trusted third-party components for the software developed by the organization.	The provider shall use open and published APIs to ensure support for interoperability between components and to facilitate migrating applications.
1	Passwords shall be controlled through a formal management process.	Internal corporate or customer (tenant) user account credentials shall be restricted as per the following, ensuring appropriate identity, entitlement, and access management and in accordance with established policies and procedures:  • Identity trust verification and service-to-service application (API) and information processing interoperability (e.g., SSO and Federation)  • Account credential lifecycle management from instantiation through revocation  • Account credential and/or identity store minimization or re-use when feasible  • Adherence to industry acceptable and/or regulatory compliant authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules (e.g., strong/multi-factor, expireable, non-shared authentication secrets)
1	The organization:  a. Develops, approves, and maintains a list of individuals with authorized access to the facility where the information system resides;  b. Issues authorization credentials for facility access;  c. Reviews the access list detailing authorized facility access by individuals [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and  d. Removes individuals from the facility access list when access is no longer required.	Physical access to information assets and functions by users and support personnel shall be restricted.
1	Administer user accounts, including additions, deletions, and modifications.	Provisioning user access (e.g., employees, contractors, customers (tenants), business partners, and/or supplier relationships) to data and organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) applications, infrastructure systems, and network components shall be authorized by the organization's management prior to access being granted and appropriately restricted as per established policies and procedures. Upon request, provider shall inform customer (tenant) of this user access, especially if customer (tenant) data is used as part the service and/or customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of control.
1	When operating platforms are changed, business critical applications shall be reviewed and tested to ensure there is no adverse impact on organizational operations or security.	The BYOD policy includes clarifying language for the expectation of privacy, requirements for litigation, e-discovery, and legal holds. The BYOD policy shall clearly state the expectations regarding the loss of non-company data in the case that a wipe of the device is required.
0	The organization permits authorized individuals to use an external information system to access the information system or to process, store, or transmit organization-controlled information only when the organization:  (a)   Verifies the implementation of required security controls on the external system as specified in the organization’s information security policy and security plan; or  (b)   Retains approved information system connection or processing agreements with the organizational entity hosting the external information system.	Roles and responsibilities of contractors, employees, and third-party users shall be documented as they relate to information assets and security.
0	Physically or logically segregated systems should be used to isolate and run software that is required for business operations but incur higher risk for the organization.	Provisioning user access (e.g., employees, contractors, customers (tenants), business partners, and/or supplier relationships) to data and organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) applications, infrastructure systems, and network components shall be authorized by the organization's management prior to access being granted and appropriately restricted as per established policies and procedures. Upon request, provider shall inform customer (tenant) of this user access, especially if customer (tenant) data is used as part the service and/or customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of control.
1	When operating platforms are changed, business critical applications shall be reviewed and tested to ensure there is no adverse impact on organizational operations or security.	The mobile device policy shall require the BYOD user to perform backups of data, prohibit the usage of unapproved application stores, and require the use of anti-malware software (where supported).
0	When operating platforms are changed, business critical applications shall be reviewed and tested to ensure there is no adverse impact on organizational operations or security.	Authorization must be obtained prior to relocation or transfer of hardware, software, or data to an offsite premises.
0	Users shall be deterred from using information assets for unauthorized purposes.	Network environments and virtual instances shall be designed and configured to restrict and monitor traffic between trusted and untrusted connections. These configurations shall be reviewed at least annually, and supported by a documented justification for use for all allowed services, protocols, ports, and by compensating controls.
1	Restrict access to privileged user IDs to least privileges necessary to perform job responsibilities.	Utility programs capable of potentially overriding system, object, network, virtual machine, and application controls shall be restricted.
1	The organization's approach to managing information security and its implementation (i.e. control objectives, controls, policies, processes and procedures for information security) shall be reviewed independently at planned intervals or when significant changes occur.	An Information Security Management Program (ISMP) shall be developed, documented, approved, and implemented that includes administrative, technical, and physical safeguards to protect assets and data from loss, misuse, unauthorized access, disclosure, alteration, and destruction. The security program shall include, but not be limited to, the following areas insofar as they relate to the characteristics of the business:  • Risk management  • Security policy  • Organization of information security  • Asset management  • Human resources security  • Physical and environmental security  • Communications and operations management  • Access control  • Information systems acquisition, development, and maintenance
0	Organizations shall regularly monitor, review and audit supplier service delivery.	Production data shall not be replicated or used in non-production environments. Any use of customer data in non-production environments requires explicit, documented approval from all customers whose data is affected, and must comply with all legal and regulatory requirements for scrubbing of sensitive data elements.
0	Configure systems to issue a log entry and alert on unsuccessful logins to an administrative account.	Configure systems to issue a log entry and alert on unsuccessful logins to an administrative account.
0	Apply static and dynamic analysis tools to verify that secure coding practices are being adhered to for internally developed software.	Mechanisms shall be put in place to monitor and quantify the types, volumes, and costs of information security incidents.
0	Address common coding vulnerabilities in software-development processes as follows:  Train developers at least annually in up- to-date secure coding techniques, including how to avoid common coding vulnerabilities.  Develop applications based on secure coding guidelines.	The BYOD policy shall clarify the systems and servers allowed for use or access on a BYOD-enabled device.
0	Restrict access to privileged user IDs to least privileges necessary to perform job responsibilities.	Workforce personnel and external business relationships shall be informed of their responsibilities and, if required, shall consent and/or contractually agree to report all information security events in a timely manner. Information security events shall be reported through predefined communications channels in a timely manner adhering to applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance obligations.
0	• How much can you scale up? Does the provider offer guarantees on maximum available resources within a minimum period?	Policies and procedures shall be implemented to ensure the consistent review of service agreements (e.g., SLAs) between providers and customers (tenants) across the relevant supply chain (upstream/downstream). Reviews shall be performed at least annually and identify any non-conformance to established agreements. The reviews should result in actions to address service-level conflicts or inconsistencies resulting from disparate supplier relationships.
0	• Do you protect your buildings from lightening strikes? o Including electrical and communication lines? 	A centralized, mobile device management solution shall be deployed to all mobile devices permitted to store, transmit, or process customer data.
0	Information systems shall be regularly reviewed for compliance with the organization's information security policies and standards.	Providers shall assure reasonable information security across their information supply chain by performing an annual review. The review shall include all partners/third party-providers upon which their information supply chain depends on.
0	The organization applies information system security engineering principles in the specification, design, development, implementation, and modification of the information system.	The company shall have a documented application validation process to test for mobile device, operating system, and application compatibility issues.
0	A formal user access provisioning process shall be implemented to assign or revoke access rights for all user types to all systems and services.	The provider shall make security incident information available to all affected customers and providers periodically through electronic methods (e.g., portals).
1	Documentation of impact.	External business partners shall adhere to the same policies and procedures for change management, release, and testing as internal developers within the organization (e.g., ITIL service management processes).
0	The implementation of changes, including patches, service packs, and other updates and modifications, shall be controlled by the use of formal change control procedures.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting processes and technical measures implemented, for timely detection of vulnerabilities within organizationally-owned or managed applications, infrastructure network and system components (e.g., network vulnerability assessment, penetration testing) to ensure the efficiency of implemented security controls. A risk-based model for prioritizing remediation of identified vulnerabilities shall be used. Changes shall be managed through a change management process for all vendor-supplied patches, configuration changes, or changes to the organization's internally developed software. Upon request, the provider informs customer (tenant) of policies and procedures and identified weaknesses especially if customer (tenant) data is used as part the service and/or customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of control.
1	A formal user access provisioning process shall be implemented to assign or revoke access rights for all user types to all systems and services.	Policies and procedures shall be established to store and manage identity information about every person who accesses IT infrastructure and to determine their level of access. Policies shall also be developed to control access to network resources based on user identity.
1	The organization:  a. Develops, documents, and disseminates to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]:    1. A physical and environmental protection policy that addresses purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment, coordination among organizational entities, and compliance; and    2. Procedures to facilitate the implementation of the physical and environmental protection policy and associated physical and environmental protection controls; and  b. Reviews and updates the current:    1. Physical and environmental protection policy [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and    2. Physical and environmental protection procedures [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for appropriate IT governance and service management to ensure appropriate planning, delivery, and support of the organization's IT capabilities supporting business functions, workforce, and/or customers based on industry acceptable standards (i.e., ITIL v4 and COBIT 5). Additionally, policies and procedures shall include defined roles and responsibilities supported by regular workforce training.
1	The organization:  a. Develops, documents, and disseminates to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]:    1. A system maintenance policy that addresses purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment, coordination among organizational entities, and compliance; and    2. Procedures to facilitate the implementation of the system maintenance policy and associated system maintenance controls; and  b. Reviews and updates the current:    1. System maintenance policy [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and    2. System maintenance procedures [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for equipment maintenance ensuring continuity and availability of operations and support personnel.
0	Conduct regular external and internal penetration tests to identify vulnerabilities and attack vectors that can be used to exploit enterprise systems successfully.	A consistent unified framework for business continuity planning and plan development shall be established, documented, and adopted to ensure all business continuity plans are consistent in addressing priorities for testing, maintenance, and information security requirements.  Requirements for business continuity plans include the following:  • Defined purpose and scope, aligned with relevant dependencies  • Accessible to and understood by those who will use them  • Owned by a named person(s) who is responsible for their review, update, and approval  • Defined lines of communication, roles, and responsibilities  • Detailed recovery procedures, manual work-around, and reference information  • Method for plan invocation
1	The information system protects the [Selection (one or more): confidentiality; integrity] of [Assignment: organization-defined information at rest].	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for the use of encryption protocols for protection of sensitive data in storage (e.g., file servers, databases, and end-user workstations), data in use (memory), and data in transmission (e.g., system interfaces, over public networks, and electronic messaging) as per applicable legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations.
1	Review custom code prior to release to production or customers in order to identify any potential coding vulnerability (using either manual or automated processes) to include at least the following:  Code changes are reviewed by individuals other than the originating code author, and by individuals knowledgeable about code-review techniques and secure coding practices.  Code reviews ensure code is developed according to secure coding guidelines  Appropriate corrections are implemented prior to release.  Code-review results are reviewed and approved by management prior to release.(Continued on next page)PCI DSS Requirements	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to ensure the development and/or acquisition of new data, physical or virtual applications, infrastructure network, and systems components, or any corporate, operations and/or data center facilities have been pre-authorized by the organization's business leadership or other accountable business role or function.
0	Users shall be deterred from using information assets for unauthorized purposes.	Users shall be deterred from using information assets for unauthorized purposes.
0	The organization:  (a)   Establishes a direct, cooperative relationship between its incident response capability and external providers of information system protection capability; and  (b)   Identifies organizational incident response team members to the external providers.	Internal corporate or customer (tenant) user account credentials shall be restricted as per the following, ensuring appropriate identity, entitlement, and access management and in accordance with established policies and procedures:  • Identity trust verification and service-to-service application (API) and information processing interoperability (e.g., SSO and Federation)  • Account credential lifecycle management from instantiation through revocation  • Account credential and/or identity store minimization or re-use when feasible  • Adherence to industry acceptable and/or regulatory compliant authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules (e.g., strong/multi-factor, expireable, non-shared authentication secrets)
1	Requirements for confidentiality or non-disclosure agreements reflecting the organization's needs for the protection of information shall be identified, regularly reviewed and documented.	An Information Security Management Program (ISMP) shall be developed, documented, approved, and implemented that includes administrative, technical, and physical safeguards to protect assets and data from loss, misuse, unauthorized access, disclosure, alteration, and destruction. The security program shall include, but not be limited to, the following areas insofar as they relate to the characteristics of the business:  • Risk management  • Security policy  • Organization of information security  • Asset management  • Human resources security  • Physical and environmental security  • Communications and operations management  • Access control  • Information systems acquisition, development, and maintenance
0	The organization establishes terms and conditions, consistent with any trust relationships established with other organizations owning, operating, and/or maintaining external information systems, allowing authorized individuals to:  a. Access the information system from external information systems; and  b. Process, store, or transmit organization-controlled information using external information systems.	Platform and data-appropriate encryption (e.g., AES-256) in open/validated formats and standard algorithms shall be required. Keys shall not be stored in the cloud (i.e., at the cloud provider in question), but maintained by the cloud consumer or trusted key management provider. Key management and key usage shall be separated duties.
1	Assets associated with information and information processing facilities shall be identified and an inventory of these assets shall be drawn up and maintained.	Policies and procedures shall be established for the secure disposal of equipment (by asset type) used outside the organization's premises. This shall include a wiping solution or destruction process that renders recovery of information impossible. The erasure shall consist of a full overwrite of the drive to ensure that the erased drive is released to inventory for reuse and deployment, or securely stored until it can be destroyed.
0	Review logs and security events for all system components to identify anomalies or suspicious activity.	Audit plans shall be developed and maintained to address business process disruptions. Auditing plans shall focus on reviewing the effectiveness of the implementation of security operations. All audit activities must be agreed upon prior to executing any audits.
1	Users shall only be provided with access to the network and network services that they have been specifically authorized to use.	Network environments and virtual instances shall be designed and configured to restrict and monitor traffic between trusted and untrusted connections. These configurations shall be reviewed at least annually, and supported by a documented justification for use for all allowed services, protocols, ports, and by compensating controls.
0	The allocation and use of privileges to information systems and services shall be restricted and controlled. Special attention shall be given to the allocation of privileged access rights, which allow users to override system controls.	Access to the organization's own developed applications, program, or object source code, or any other form of intellectual property (IP), and use of proprietary software shall be appropriately restricted following the rule of least privilege based on job function as per established user access policies and procedures.
1	The information system uniquely identifies and authenticates organizational users (or processes acting on behalf of organizational users).	User access policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for ensuring appropriate identity, entitlement, and access management for all internal corporate and customer (tenant) users with access to data and organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) application interfaces and infrastructure network and systems components. These policies, procedures, processes, and measures must incorporate the following:  • Procedures, supporting roles, and responsibilities for provisioning and de-provisioning user account entitlements following the rule of least privilege based on job function (e.g., internal employee and contingent staff personnel changes, customer-controlled access, suppliers' business relationships, or other third-party business relationships)  • Business case considerations for higher levels of assurance and multi-factor authentication secrets (e.g., management interfaces, key generation, remote access, segregation of duties, emergency access, large-scale provisioning or geographically-distributed deployments, and personnel redundancy for critical systems)  • Access segmentation to sessions and data in multi-tenant architectures by any third party (e.g., provider and/or other customer (tenant))  • Identity trust verification and service-to-service application (API) and information processing interoperability (e.g., SSO and federation)  • Account credential lifecycle management from instantiation through revocation  • Account credential and/or identity store minimization or re-use when feasible  • Authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules for access to data and sessions (e.g., encryption and strong/multi-factor, expireable, non-shared authentication secrets)  • Permissions and supporting capabilities for customer (tenant) controls over authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules for access to data and sessions  • Adherence to applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance requirements
1	Maintain an up-to-date list of devices. The list should include the following:  Make, model of device  Location of device (for example, the address of the site or facility where the device is located)  Device serial number or other method of unique identification.PCI DSS Requirements	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for defining and adhering to the retention period of any critical asset as per established policies and procedures, as well as applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance obligations. Backup and recovery measures shall be incorporated as part of business continuity planning and tested accordingly for effectiveness.
0	Data Subjects have a right to adequate and easily accessible notice of the use and disclosures of their PII that may be made by the PII controller, and of the data subject's rights and the contoller’s legal duties with respect to PII.	Policies, procedures, and mutually-agreed upon provisions and/or terms shall be established to satisfy customer (tenant) requirements for service-to-service application (API) and information processing interoperability, and portability for application development and information exchange, usage, and integrity persistence.
0	Organizations shall develop and maintain a risk management program to manage risk to an acceptable level.	Requirements for non-disclosure or confidentiality agreements reflecting the organization's needs for the protection of data and operational details shall be identified, documented, and reviewed at planned intervals.
0	Coverage of all system components	Business-critical or customer (tenant) impacting (physical and virtual) application and system-system interface (API) designs and configurations, and infrastructure network and systems components, shall be designed, developed, and deployed in accordance with mutually agreed-upon service and capacity-level expectations, as well as IT governance and service management policies and procedures.
1	The information system separates information flows logically or physically using [Assignment: organization-defined mechanisms and/or techniques] to accomplish [Assignment: organization- defined required separations by types of information].	Production and non-production environments shall be separated to prevent unauthorized access or changes to information assets. Separation of the environments may include: stateful inspection firewalls, domain/realm authentication sources, and clear segregation of duties for personnel accessing these environments as part of their job duties.
0	Ensure that all of the organization’s key systems are backed up as a complete system, through processes such as imaging, to enable the quick recovery of an entire system.	Network environments and virtual instances shall be designed and configured to restrict and monitor traffic between trusted and untrusted connections. These configurations shall be reviewed at least annually, and supported by a documented justification for use for all allowed services, protocols, ports, and by compensating controls.
0	The information system alerts [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles] when the following indications of compromise or potential compromise occur: [Assignment: organization- defined compromise indicators].	The information system alerts [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles] when the following indications of compromise or potential compromise occur: [Assignment: organization- defined compromise indicators].
0	The organization only permits the use of shared/group accounts that meet [Assignment: organization-defined conditions for establishing shared/group accounts]. 	The organization only permits the use of shared/group accounts that meet [Assignment: organization-defined conditions for establishing shared/group accounts]. 
0	Data output from an application shall be validated to ensure that the processing of stored information is correct and appropriate to the circumstances.	Access to the organization's own developed applications, program, or object source code, or any other form of intellectual property (IP), and use of proprietary software shall be appropriately restricted following the rule of least privilege based on job function as per established user access policies and procedures.
0	The organization restricts access to [Assignment: organization-defined types of digital and/or non-digital media] to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles].	Upon termination of workforce personnel and/or expiration of external business relationships, all organizationally-owned assets shall be returned within an established period.
1	All employees of the organization and contractors and third-party users shall receive appropriate awareness training and regular updates in organizational policies and procedures, as relevant for their job function.	Anti-malware awareness training, specific to mobile devices, shall be included in the provider's information security awareness training.
0	Information systems shall be regularly reviewed for compliance with the organization's information security policies and standards.	Audit plans shall be developed and maintained to address business process disruptions. Auditing plans shall focus on reviewing the effectiveness of the implementation of security operations. All audit activities must be agreed upon prior to executing any audits.
1	Security perimeters (barriers such as walls, card controlled entry gates or manned reception desks) shall be used to protect areas that contain information and information assets.	Physical security perimeters (e.g., fences, walls, barriers, guards, gates, electronic surveillance, physical authentication mechanisms, reception desks, and security patrols) shall be implemented to safeguard sensitive data and information systems.
1	Identity or name of affected data, system component, or resource.	Higher levels of assurance are required for protection, retention, and lifecycle management of audit logs, adhering to applicable legal, statutory or regulatory compliance obligations and providing unique user access accountability to detect potentially suspicious network behaviors and/or file integrity anomalies, and to support forensic investigative capabilities in the event of a security breach.
0	Ensure that all backups have at least one backup destination that is not continuously addressable through operating system calls.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for appropriate IT governance and service management to ensure appropriate planning, delivery, and support of the organization's IT capabilities supporting business functions, workforce, and/or customers based on industry acceptable standards (i.e., ITIL v4 and COBIT 5). Additionally, policies and procedures shall include defined roles and responsibilities supported by regular workforce training.
0	The organization manages information system identifiers by:  a. Receiving authorization from [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles] to assign an individual, group, role, or device identifier;  b. Selecting an identifier that identifies an individual, group, role, or device;  c. Assigning the identifier to the intended individual, group, role, or device;  d. Preventing reuse of identifiers for [Assignment: organization-defined time period]; and  e. Disabling the identifier after [Assignment: organization-defined time period of inactivity].	The provider shall make security incident information available to all affected customers and providers periodically through electronic methods (e.g., portals).
1	A policy on the use of cryptographic controls for protection of information shall be developed and implemented, and supported by formal procedures.	Information security policies and procedures shall be established and made readily available for review by all impacted personnel and external business relationships. Information security policies must be authorized by the organization's business leadership (or other accountable business role or function) and supported by a strategic business plan and an information security management program inclusive of defined information security roles and responsibilities for business leadership.
1	Information systems shall be regularly reviewed for compliance with the organization's information security policies and standards.	External business partners shall adhere to the same policies and procedures for change management, release, and testing as internal developers within the organization (e.g., ITIL service management processes).
0	• Does the provider ensure virtual images are hardened by default?	There shall be a defined and documented method for determining the impact of any disruption to the organization (cloud provider, cloud consumer) that must incorporate the following:  • Identify critical products and services  • Identify all dependencies, including processes, applications, business partners, and third party service providers  • Understand threats to critical products and services  • Determine impacts resulting from planned or unplanned disruptions and how these vary over time  • Establish the maximum tolerable period for disruption  • Establish priorities for recovery  • Establish recovery time objectives for resumption of critical products and services within their maximum tolerable period of disruption  • Estimate the resources required for resumption
0	The implementation of changes, including patches, service packs, and other updates and modifications, shall be controlled by the use of formal change control procedures.	Supply chain agreements (e.g., SLAs) between providers and customers (tenants) shall incorporate at least the following mutually-agreed upon provisions and/or terms:  • Scope of business relationship and services offered (e.g., customer (tenant) data acquisition, exchange and usage, feature sets and functionality, personnel and infrastructure network and systems components for service delivery and support, roles and responsibilities of provider and customer (tenant) and any subcontracted or outsourced business relationships, physical geographical location of hosted services, and any known regulatory compliance considerations)  • Information security requirements, provider and customer (tenant) primary points of contact for the duration of the business relationship, and references to detailed supporting and relevant business processes and technical measures implemented to enable effectively governance, risk management, assurance and legal, statutory and regulatory compliance obligations by all impacted business relationships  • Notification and/or pre-authorization of any changes controlled by the provider with customer (tenant) impacts  • Timely notification of a security incident (or confirmed breach) to all customers (tenants) and other business relationships impacted (i.e., up- and down-stream impacted supply chain)  • Assessment and independent verification of compliance with agreement provisions and/or terms (e.g., industry-acceptable certification, attestation audit report, or equivalent forms of assurance) without posing an unacceptable business risk of exposure to the organization being assessed  • Expiration of the business relationship and treatment of customer (tenant) data impacted  • Customer (tenant) service-to-service application (API) and data interoperability and portability requirements for application development and information exchange, usage, and integrity persistence
0	To protect the organization's interests as part of the process of changing or terminating employment.	To protect the organization's interests as part of the process of changing or terminating employment.
0	• When equipment is sent away for repair, is the data cleaned from it first? o How is this done? 	A documented list of approved application stores has been defined as acceptable for mobile devices accessing or storing provider managed data.
0	Decrypt all encrypted network traffic at the boundary proxy prior to analyzing the content. However, the organization may use whitelists of allowed sites that can be accessed through the proxy without decrypting the traffic.	Decrypt all encrypted network traffic at the boundary proxy prior to analyzing the content. However, the organization may use whitelists of allowed sites that can be accessed through the proxy without decrypting the traffic.
1	Create the incident response plan to be implemented in the event of system breach. Ensure the plan addresses the following, at a minimum:  Roles, responsibilities, and communication and contact strategies in the event of a compromise including notification of the payment brands, at a minimum  Specific incident response procedures  Business recovery and continuity procedures  Data backup processes  Analysis of legal requirements for reporting compromises  Coverage and responses of all critical system components  Reference or inclusion of incident response procedures from the payment brands.	Points of contact for applicable regulation authorities, national and local law enforcement, and other legal jurisdictional authorities shall be maintained and regularly updated (e.g., change in impacted-scope and/or a change in any compliance obligation) to ensure direct compliance liaisons have been established and to be prepared for a forensic investigation requiring rapid engagement with law enforcement.
0	All employees, contractors, and third-party users shall return all of the organization's assets in their possession upon termination of their employment, contract, or agreement.	Password policies, applicable to mobile devices, shall be documented and enforced through technical controls on all company devices or devices approved for BYOD usage, and shall prohibit the changing of password/PIN lengths and authentication requirements.
1	The organization checks media containing diagnostic and test programs for malicious code before the media are used in the information system.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for equipment maintenance ensuring continuity and availability of operations and support personnel.
1	Information systems shall be regularly reviewed for compliance with the organization's information security policies and standards.	The provider shall use an industry-recognized virtualization platform and standard virtualization formats (e.g., OVF) to help ensure interoperability, and shall have documented custom changes made to any hypervisor in use and all solution-specific virtualization hooks available for customer review.
0	Equipment shall be sited and protected to reduce the risks from environmental threats and hazards, and opportunities for unauthorized access.	User access policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for ensuring appropriate identity, entitlement, and access management for all internal corporate and customer (tenant) users with access to data and organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) application interfaces and infrastructure network and systems components. These policies, procedures, processes, and measures must incorporate the following:  • Procedures, supporting roles, and responsibilities for provisioning and de-provisioning user account entitlements following the rule of least privilege based on job function (e.g., internal employee and contingent staff personnel changes, customer-controlled access, suppliers' business relationships, or other third-party business relationships)  • Business case considerations for higher levels of assurance and multi-factor authentication secrets (e.g., management interfaces, key generation, remote access, segregation of duties, emergency access, large-scale provisioning or geographically-distributed deployments, and personnel redundancy for critical systems)  • Access segmentation to sessions and data in multi-tenant architectures by any third party (e.g., provider and/or other customer (tenant))  • Identity trust verification and service-to-service application (API) and information processing interoperability (e.g., SSO and federation)  • Account credential lifecycle management from instantiation through revocation  • Account credential and/or identity store minimization or re-use when feasible  • Authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules for access to data and sessions (e.g., encryption and strong/multi-factor, expireable, non-shared authentication secrets)  • Permissions and supporting capabilities for customer (tenant) controls over authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules for access to data and sessions  • Adherence to applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance requirements
0	Leverage the Advanced Encryption Standard (AES) to encrypt wireless data in transit.	All data shall be designated with stewardship, with assigned responsibilities defined, documented, and communicated.
0	For wireless environments connected to the cardholder data environment or transmitting cardholder data, change ALL wireless vendor defaults at installation, including but not limited to default wireless encryption keys, passwords, and SNMP community strings.	The BYOD policy includes clarifying language for the expectation of privacy, requirements for litigation, e-discovery, and legal holds. The BYOD policy shall clearly state the expectations regarding the loss of non-company data in the case that a wipe of the device is required.
1	Assets maintained in the inventory shall be owned.	Policies and procedures shall be established for the secure disposal of equipment (by asset type) used outside the organization's premises. This shall include a wiping solution or destruction process that renders recovery of information impossible. The erasure shall consist of a full overwrite of the drive to ensure that the erased drive is released to inventory for reuse and deployment, or securely stored until it can be destroyed.
0	The organization requires the developer of the information system, system component, or information system service to identify early in the system development life cycle, the functions, ports, protocols, and services intended for organizational use.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to prevent the execution of unauthorized mobile code, defined as software transferred between systems over a trusted or untrusted network and executed on a local system without explicit installation or execution by the recipient, on organizationally-owned or managed user end-point devices (e.g., issued workstations, laptops, and mobile devices) and IT infrastructure network and systems components.
1	Maintain an inventory of system components that are in scope for PCI DSS.	Third-party service providers shall demonstrate compliance with information security and confidentiality, access control, service definitions, and delivery level agreements included in third-party contracts. Third-party reports, records, and services shall undergo audit and review at least annually to govern and maintain compliance with the service delivery agreements.
0	User identification	Production data shall not be replicated or used in non-production environments. Any use of customer data in non-production environments requires explicit, documented approval from all customers whose data is affected, and must comply with all legal and regulatory requirements for scrubbing of sensitive data elements.
0	Ensure that security policies and operational procedures for restricting access to cardholder data are documented, in use, and known to all affected parties.	Organizations shall follow a defined quality change control and testing process (e.g., ITIL Service Management) with established baselines, testing, and release standards that focus on system availability, confidentiality, and integrity of systems and services.
0	The organization:  a. Establishes and makes readily available to individuals requiring access to the information system, the rules that describe their responsibilities and expected behavior with regard to information and information system usage;  b. Receives a signed acknowledgment from such individuals, indicating that they have read, understand, and agree to abide by the rules of behavior, before authorizing access to information and the information system;  c. Reviews and updates the rules of behavior [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and d. Requires individuals who have signed a previous version of the rules of behavior to read and resign when the rules of behavior are revised/updated.	Platform and data-appropriate encryption (e.g., AES-256) in open/validated formats and standard algorithms shall be required. Keys shall not be stored in the cloud (i.e., at the cloud provider in question), but maintained by the cloud consumer or trusted key management provider. Key management and key usage shall be separated duties.
1	All relevant legislative statutory, regulatory, contractual requirements and the organization's approach to meet these requirements shall be explicitly identified, documented and kept up to date for each information system and the organization.	The provider shall have a documented mobile device policy that includes a documented definition for mobile devices and the acceptable usage and requirements for all mobile devices. The provider shall post and communicate the policy and requirements through the company's security awareness and training program.
0	The organization:  (a)   Implements procedures for the use of maintenance personnel that lack appropriate security clearances or are not U.S. citizens, that include the following requirements:     (1)   Maintenance personnel who do not have needed access authorizations, clearances, or formal access approvals are escorted and supervised during the performance of maintenance and diagnostic activities on the information system by approved organizational personnel who are fully cleared, have appropriate access authorizations, and are technically qualified;    (2)   Prior to initiating maintenance or diagnostic activities by personnel who do not have needed access authorizations, clearances or formal access approvals, all volatile information storage components within the information system are sanitized and all nonvolatile storage media are removed or physically disconnected from the system and secured; and  (b)   Develops and implements alternate security safeguards in the event an information system component cannot be sanitized, removed, or disconnected from the system.	Ingress and egress points such as service areas and other points where unauthorized personnel may enter the premises shall be monitored, controlled and, if possible, isolated from data storage and processing facilities to prevent unauthorized data corruption, compromise, and loss.
0	Establish and implement firewall and router configuration standards that include the following:	Internal corporate or customer (tenant) user account credentials shall be restricted as per the following, ensuring appropriate identity, entitlement, and access management and in accordance with established policies and procedures:  • Identity trust verification and service-to-service application (API) and information processing interoperability (e.g., SSO and Federation)  • Account credential lifecycle management from instantiation through revocation  • Account credential and/or identity store minimization or re-use when feasible  • Adherence to industry acceptable and/or regulatory compliant authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules (e.g., strong/multi-factor, expireable, non-shared authentication secrets)
0	To establish efficient governance for PII processing.	Each operating system shall be hardened to provide only necessary ports, protocols, and services to meet business needs and have in place supporting technical controls such as: antivirus, file integrity monitoring, and logging as part of their baseline operating build standard or template.
1	Do not store sensitive authentication data after authorization (even if encrypted). If sensitive authentication data is received, render all data unrecoverable upon completion of the authorization process.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for defining and adhering to the retention period of any critical asset as per established policies and procedures, as well as applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance obligations. Backup and recovery measures shall be incorporated as part of business continuity planning and tested accordingly for effectiveness.
0	Use appropriate facility entry controls to limit and monitor physical access to systems in the cardholder data environment.	Multi-tenant organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) applications, and infrastructure system and network components, shall be designed, developed, deployed, and configured such that provider and customer (tenant) user access is appropriately segmented from other tenant users, based on the following considerations:  • Established policies and procedures  • Isolation of business critical assets and/or sensitive user data, and sessions that mandate stronger internal controls and high levels of assurance  • Compliance with legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations
0	o In the event of the primary site being made unavailable, what is the minimum separation for the location of the secondary site?	Applications and programming interfaces (APIs) shall be designed, developed, deployed, and tested in accordance with leading industry standards (e.g., OWASP for web applications) and adhere to applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance obligations.
0	Implement processes to test for the presence of wireless access points (802.11), and detect and identify all authorized and unauthorized wireless access points on a quarterly basis.	A reliable and mutually agreed upon external time source shall be used to synchronize the system clocks of all relevant information processing systems to facilitate tracing and reconstitution of activity timelines.
0	Disable peer-to-peer (ad hoc) wireless network capabilities on wireless clients.	The availability, quality, and adequate capacity and resources shall be planned, prepared, and measured to deliver the required system performance in accordance with legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations. Projections of future capacity requirements shall be made to mitigate the risk of system overload.
1	Deliver training to address the skills gap identified to positively impact workforce members’ security behavior.	Anti-malware awareness training, specific to mobile devices, shall be included in the provider's information security awareness training.
0	Detection, prevention and recovery controls to protect against malware shall be implemented, combined with appropriate user awareness.	The mobile device policy shall require the BYOD user to perform backups of data, prohibit the usage of unapproved application stores, and require the use of anti-malware software (where supported).
0	Store secret and private keys used to encrypt/decrypt cardholder data in one (or more) of the following forms at all times:  Encrypted with a key-encrypting key that is at least as strong as the data- encrypting key, and that is stored separately from the data-encrypting key  Within a secure cryptographic device (such as a hardware (host) security module (HSM) or PTS-approved point-of-interaction device)  As at least two full-length key components or key shares, in accordance with an industry- accepted method	Physical security perimeters (e.g., fences, walls, barriers, guards, gates, electronic surveillance, physical authentication mechanisms, reception desks, and security patrols) shall be implemented to safeguard sensitive data and information systems.
0	The organization:  (a)   Develops primary and alternate telecommunications service agreements that contain priority- of-service provisions in accordance with organizational availability requirements (including recovery time objectives); and  (b)   Requests Telecommunications Service Priority for all telecommunications services used for national security emergency preparedness in the event that the primary and/or alternate telecommunications services are provided by a common carrier.	The mobile device policy shall require the BYOD user to perform backups of data, prohibit the usage of unapproved application stores, and require the use of anti-malware software (where supported).
0	Fully document and implement all key- management processes and procedures for cryptographic keys used for encryption of cardholder data, including the following:	Managers are responsible for maintaining awareness of, and complying with, security policies, procedures, and standards that are relevant to their area of responsibility.
0	All information security responsibilities shall be defined and allocated.	Baseline security requirements shall be established for developed or acquired, organizationally-owned or managed, physical or virtual, applications and infrastructure system and network components that comply with applicable legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations. Deviations from standard baseline configurations must be authorized following change management policies and procedures prior to deployment, provisioning, or use. Compliance with security baseline requirements must be reassessed at least annually unless an alternate frequency has been established and authorized based on business needs.
1	The organization explicitly authorizes access to [Assignment: organization-defined security functions (deployed in hardware, software, and firmware) and security-relevant information].	Provisioning user access (e.g., employees, contractors, customers (tenants), business partners, and/or supplier relationships) to data and organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) applications, infrastructure systems, and network components shall be authorized by the organization's management prior to access being granted and appropriately restricted as per established policies and procedures. Upon request, provider shall inform customer (tenant) of this user access, especially if customer (tenant) data is used as part the service and/or customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of control.
1	Ensure that only network ports, protocols, and services listening on a system with validated business needs are running on each system.	User access to diagnostic and configuration ports shall be restricted to authorized individuals and applications.
1	A formal user access provisioning process shall be implemented to assign or revoke access rights for all user types to all systems and services.	Provisioning user access (e.g., employees, contractors, customers (tenants), business partners, and/or supplier relationships) to data and organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) applications, infrastructure systems, and network components shall be authorized by the organization's management prior to access being granted and appropriately restricted as per established policies and procedures. Upon request, provider shall inform customer (tenant) of this user access, especially if customer (tenant) data is used as part the service and/or customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of control.
0	Agreements shall address the secure transfer of business information between the organization and external parties.	User access shall be authorized and revalidated for entitlement appropriateness, at planned intervals, by the organization's business leadership or other accountable business role or function supported by evidence to demonstrate the organization is adhering to the rule of least privilege based on job function. For identified access violations, remediation must follow established user access policies and procedures.
0	Identify and respond to suspicious events	Identify and respond to suspicious events
0	Deliver training to address the skills gap identified to positively impact workforce members’ security behavior.	Points of contact for applicable regulation authorities, national and local law enforcement, and other legal jurisdictional authorities shall be maintained and regularly updated (e.g., change in impacted-scope and/or a change in any compliance obligation) to ensure direct compliance liaisons have been established and to be prepared for a forensic investigation requiring rapid engagement with law enforcement.
0	o How are the detection capabilities structured? o How can the cloud customer report anomalies and security events to the provider? o What facilities does the provider allow for customer-selected third party RTSM services to intervene in their systems (where appropriate) or to co-ordinate incident response capabilities with the cloud provider?         o Is there a real time security monitoring (RTSM) service in place? Is the service outsourced? What kind of parameters and services are monitored? o Do you provide (upon request) a periodical report on security incidents (eg,. according to the ITIL definition)? o For how long are the security logs retained? Are those logs securely stored? Who has access to the logs? o Is it possible for the customer to build a HIPS/HIDS in the virtual machine image? Is it possible to integrate the information collected by the intrusion detection and prevention systems of the customer into the RTSM service of the cloud provider or that of a third party? 	All mobile devices permitted for use through the company BYOD program or a company-assigned mobile device shall allow for remote wipe by the company's corporate IT or shall have all company-provided data wiped by the company's corporate IT.
0	The information system implements [Assignment: organization-defined security safeguards] to protect its memory from unauthorized code execution.	The information system implements [Assignment: organization-defined security safeguards] to protect its memory from unauthorized code execution.
1	Current network diagram that identifies all connections between the cardholder data environment and other networks, including any wireless networks	Information system documentation (e.g., administrator and user guides, and architecture diagrams) shall be made available to authorized personnel to ensure the following:  • Configuring, installing, and operating the information system  • Effectively using the system’s security features
0	Define access needs for each role, including:  System components and data resources that each role needs to access for their job function  Level of privilege required (for example, user, administrator, etc.) for accessing resources.	Organizations shall create and maintain a control framework which captures standards, regulatory, legal, and statutory requirements relevant for their business needs. The control framework shall be reviewed at least annually to ensure changes that could affect the business processes are reflected.
0	The information system:  a. Uses internal system clocks to generate time stamps for audit records; and  b. Records time stamps for audit records that can be mapped to Coordinated Universal Time (UTC) or Greenwich Mean Time (GMT) and meets [Assignment: organization-defined granularity of time measurement].	Risks shall be mitigated to an acceptable level. Acceptance levels based on risk criteria shall be established and documented in accordance with reasonable resolution time frames and stakeholder approval.
1	Risks shall be continually evaluated and assessed.	Risk assessment results shall include updates to security policies, procedures, standards, and controls to ensure that they remain relevant and effective.
1	o Does the provider carry out penetration testing? How often? What are actually tested during the penetration test – for example, do they test the security isolation of each image to ensure it is not possible to ‘break out’ of one image into another and also gain access to the host infrastructure?. The tests should also check to see if it is possible to gain access, via the virtual image, to the cloud providers management and support systems (e.g, example the provisioning and admin access control systems).	Independent reviews and assessments shall be performed at least annually to ensure that the organization addresses nonconformities of established policies, standards, procedures, and compliance obligations.
0	The information system fails securely in the event of an operational failure of a boundary protection device.   Supplemental Guidance:  Fail secure is a condition achieved by employing information system mechanisms to ensure that in the event of operational failures of boundary protection devices at managed interfaces (e.g., routers, firewalls, guards, and application gateways residing on protected subnetworks commonly referred to as demilitarized zones), information systems do not enter into unsecure states where intended security properties no longer hold. Failures of boundary protection devices cannot lead to, or cause information external to the devices to enter the devices, nor can failures permit unauthorized information releases. Related controls: CP-2, SC-24.	The information system fails securely in the event of an operational failure of a boundary protection device.   Supplemental Guidance:  Fail secure is a condition achieved by employing information system mechanisms to ensure that in the event of operational failures of boundary protection devices at managed interfaces (e.g., routers, firewalls, guards, and application gateways residing on protected subnetworks commonly referred to as demilitarized zones), information systems do not enter into unsecure states where intended security properties no longer hold. Failures of boundary protection devices cannot lead to, or cause information external to the devices to enter the devices, nor can failures permit unauthorized information releases. Related controls: CP-2, SC-24.
0	The information system, for hardware token-based authentication, employs mechanisms that satisfy [Assignment: organization-defined token quality requirements].	The information system, for hardware token-based authentication, employs mechanisms that satisfy [Assignment: organization-defined token quality requirements].
1	Ensure that all network traffic to or from the Internet passes through an authenticated application layer proxy that is configured to filter unauthorized connections.	Multi-tenant organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) applications, and infrastructure system and network components, shall be designed, developed, deployed, and configured such that provider and customer (tenant) user access is appropriately segmented from other tenant users, based on the following considerations:  • Established policies and procedures  • Isolation of business critical assets and/or sensitive user data, and sessions that mandate stronger internal controls and high levels of assurance  • Compliance with legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations
0	Configure system security parameters to prevent misuse.	Proper forensic procedures, including chain of custody, are required for the presentation of evidence to support potential legal action subject to the relevant jurisdiction after an information security incident. Upon notification, customers and/or other external business partners impacted by a security breach shall be given the opportunity to participate as is legally permissible in the forensic investigation.
0	The information system:  a. Provides additional data origin and integrity artifacts along with the authoritative name resolution data the system returns in response to external name/address resolution queries; and  b. Provides the means to indicate the security status of child zones and (if the child supports secure resolution services) to enable verification of a chain of trust among parent and child domains, when operating as part of a distributed, hierarchical namespace.   Supplemental Guidance:  This control enables external clients including, for example, remote Internet clients, to obtain origin authentication and integrity verification assurances for the host/service name to network address resolution information obtained through the service. Information systems that provide name and address resolution services include, for example, domain name system (DNS) servers. Additional artifacts include, for example, DNS Security (DNSSEC) digital signatures and cryptographic keys. DNS resource records are examples of authoritative data. The means to indicate the security status of child zones includes, for example, the use of delegation signer resource records in the DNS. The DNS security controls reflect (and are referenced from) OMB Memorandum 08-23. Information systems that use technologies other than the DNS to map between host/service names and network addresses provide other means to assure the authenticity and integrity of response data. Related controls: AU-10, SC-8, SC-12, SC-13, SC-21, SC-22.    	The information system:  a. Provides additional data origin and integrity artifacts along with the authoritative name resolution data the system returns in response to external name/address resolution queries; and  b. Provides the means to indicate the security status of child zones and (if the child supports secure resolution services) to enable verification of a chain of trust among parent and child domains, when operating as part of a distributed, hierarchical namespace.   Supplemental Guidance:  This control enables external clients including, for example, remote Internet clients, to obtain origin authentication and integrity verification assurances for the host/service name to network address resolution information obtained through the service. Information systems that provide name and address resolution services include, for example, domain name system (DNS) servers. Additional artifacts include, for example, DNS Security (DNSSEC) digital signatures and cryptographic keys. DNS resource records are examples of authoritative data. The means to indicate the security status of child zones includes, for example, the use of delegation signer resource records in the DNS. The DNS security controls reflect (and are referenced from) OMB Memorandum 08-23. Information systems that use technologies other than the DNS to map between host/service names and network addresses provide other means to assure the authenticity and integrity of response data. Related controls: AU-10, SC-8, SC-12, SC-13, SC-21, SC-22.    
0	Disable wireless peripheral access of devices (such as Bluetooth and NFC), unless such access is required for a business purpose.	Proper forensic procedures, including chain of custody, are required for the presentation of evidence to support potential legal action subject to the relevant jurisdiction after an information security incident. Upon notification, customers and/or other external business partners impacted by a security breach shall be given the opportunity to participate as is legally permissible in the forensic investigation.
0	Faults shall be logged, analyzed, and appropriate remediation action taken.	Protection measures shall be put into place to react to natural and man-made threats based upon a geographically-specific business impact assessment.
1	Configure system security parameters to prevent misuse.	External business partners shall adhere to the same policies and procedures for change management, release, and testing as internal developers within the organization (e.g., ITIL service management processes).
0	Maintain strict control over the internal or external distribution of any kind of media, including the following:	The organization's business leadership (or other accountable business role or function) shall review the information security policy at planned intervals or as a result of changes to the organization to ensure its continuing alignment with the security strategy, effectiveness, accuracy, relevance, and applicability to legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance obligations.
1	The allocation and use of privileges to information systems and services shall be restricted and controlled. Special attention shall be given to the allocation of privileged access rights, which allow users to override system controls.	Policies and procedures shall be established to store and manage identity information about every person who accesses IT infrastructure and to determine their level of access. Policies shall also be developed to control access to network resources based on user identity.
1	Assign access based on individual personnel’s job classification and function.	External business partners shall adhere to the same policies and procedures for change management, release, and testing as internal developers within the organization (e.g., ITIL service management processes).
1	• What provisions exist in the event of the theft of a customer’s credentials (detection, revocation, evidence for actions)?	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to triage security-related events and ensure timely and thorough incident management, as per established IT service management policies and procedures.
0	Prohibit direct public access between the Internet and any system component in the cardholder data environment.	Data related to electronic commerce (ecommerce) that traverses public networks shall be appropriately classified and protected from fraudulent activity, unauthorized disclosure, or modification in such a manner to prevent contract dispute and compromise of data.
0	Document and validate PCI DSS scope	Document and validate PCI DSS scope
0	System administrator and system operator activities shall be logged and regularly reviewed.	User access policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for restricting user access as per defined segregation of duties to address business risks associated with a user-role conflict of interest.
1	There shall be procedures in place to control the installation of software on operational systems.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to restrict the installation of unauthorized software on organizationally-owned or managed user end-point devices (e.g., issued workstations, laptops, and mobile devices) and IT infrastructure network and systems components.
1	The software inventory system should be tied into the hardware asset inventory so all devices and associated software are tracked from a single location.	Assets must be classified in terms of business criticality, service-level expectations, and operational continuity requirements. A complete inventory of business-critical assets located at all sites and/or geographical locations and their usage over time shall be maintained and updated regularly, and assigned ownership by defined roles and responsibilities.
1	Requirement for cryptographic key custodians to formally acknowledge that they understand and accept their key- custodian responsibilities.	Policies and procedures shall be established for the management of cryptographic keys in the service's cryptosystem (e.g., lifecycle management from key generation to revocation and replacement, public key infrastructure, cryptographic protocol design and algorithms used, access controls in place for secure key generation, and exchange and storage including segregation of keys used for encrypted data or sessions). Upon request, provider shall inform the customer (tenant) of changes within the cryptosystem, especially if the customer (tenant) data is used as part of the service, and/or the customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of the control.
0	Segment the network based on the label or classification level of the information stored on the servers, locate all sensitive information on separated Virtual Local Area Networks (VLANs).	Organizations shall follow a defined quality change control and testing process (e.g., ITIL Service Management) with established baselines, testing, and release standards that focus on system availability, confidentiality, and integrity of systems and services.
0	The organization:  a. Develops, documents, and disseminates to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]:    1. An incident response policy that addresses purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment, coordination among organizational entities, and compliance; and    2. Procedures to facilitate the implementation of the incident response policy and associated incident response controls; and  b. Reviews and updates the current:    1. Incident response policy [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and    2. Incident response procedures [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	The BYOD policy shall define the device and eligibility requirements to allow for BYOD usage.
0	The organization:  a. Configures the information system to provide only essential capabilities; and  b. Prohibits or restricts the use of the following functions, ports, protocols, and/or services: [Assignment: organization-defined prohibited or restricted functions, ports, protocols, and/or services].	The organization:  a. Configures the information system to provide only essential capabilities; and  b. Prohibits or restricts the use of the following functions, ports, protocols, and/or services: [Assignment: organization-defined prohibited or restricted functions, ports, protocols, and/or services].
0	Limit access to system components and cardholder data to only those individuals whose job requires such access.	An inventory of all mobile devices used to store and access company data shall be kept and maintained. All changes to the status of these devices (i.e., operating system and patch levels, lost or decommissioned status, and to whom the device is assigned or approved for usage (BYOD)) will be included for each device in the inventory.
0	Managers shall regularly review the compliance of information processing and procedures within their area of responsibility with the appropriate security policies, standards and any other security requirements.	Assets must be classified in terms of business criticality, service-level expectations, and operational continuity requirements. A complete inventory of business-critical assets located at all sites and/or geographical locations and their usage over time shall be maintained and updated regularly, and assigned ownership by defined roles and responsibilities.
1	The organization:  a. Develops, documents, and disseminates to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]:    1. A security planning policy that addresses purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment, coordination among organizational entities, and compliance; and    2. Procedures to facilitate the implementation of the security planning policy and associated security planning controls; and  b. Reviews and updates the current:    1. Security planning policy [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and    2. Security planning procedures [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	Executive and line management shall take formal action to support information security through clearly-documented direction and commitment, and shall ensure the action has been assigned.
0	The information system implements privileged access authorization to [Assignment: organization- identified information system components] for selected [Assignment: organization-defined vulnerability scanning activities].	The information system implements privileged access authorization to [Assignment: organization- identified information system components] for selected [Assignment: organization-defined vulnerability scanning activities].
0	• Does the client credential system allow for the separation of roles and responsibilities and for multiple domains (or a single key for multiple domains, roles and responsibilities)?	Aligned with the enterprise-wide framework, formal risk assessments shall be performed at least annually or at planned intervals, (and in conjunction with any changes to information systems) to determine the likelihood and impact of all identified risks using qualitative and quantitative methods. The likelihood and impact associated with inherent and residual risk shall be determined independently, considering all risk categories (e.g., audit results, threat and vulnerability analysis, and regulatory compliance).
1	Manage the network infrastructure across network connections that are separated from the business use of that network, relying on separate VLANs or, preferably, on entirely different physical connectivity for management sessions for network devices.	Multi-tenant organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) applications, and infrastructure system and network components, shall be designed, developed, deployed, and configured such that provider and customer (tenant) user access is appropriately segmented from other tenant users, based on the following considerations:  • Established policies and procedures  • Isolation of business critical assets and/or sensitive user data, and sessions that mandate stronger internal controls and high levels of assurance  • Compliance with legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations
1	Permit only “established” connections into the network.	Network environments and virtual instances shall be designed and configured to restrict and monitor traffic between trusted and untrusted connections. These configurations shall be reviewed at least annually, and supported by a documented justification for use for all allowed services, protocols, ports, and by compensating controls.
0	Manage the network infrastructure across network connections that are separated from the business use of that network, relying on separate VLANs or, preferably, on entirely different physical connectivity for management sessions for network devices.	Prior to granting customers access to data, assets, and information systems, identified security, contractual, and regulatory requirements for customer access shall be addressed.
1	Use appropriate facility entry controls to limit and monitor physical access to systems in the cardholder data environment.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to restrict the installation of unauthorized software on organizationally-owned or managed user end-point devices (e.g., issued workstations, laptops, and mobile devices) and IT infrastructure network and systems components.
0	Maintain an inventory of all sensitive information stored, processed, or transmitted by the organization’s technology systems, including those located on-site or at a remote service provider.	Maintain an inventory of all sensitive information stored, processed, or transmitted by the organization’s technology systems, including those located on-site or at a remote service provider.
1	The organization: a. Implements an incident handling capability for security incidents that includes preparation, detection and analysis, containment, eradication, and recovery; b. Coordinates incident handling activities with contingency planning activities; and c. Incorporates lessons learned from ongoing incident handling activities into incident response procedures, training, and testing/exercises, and implements the resulting changes accordingly.	Mechanisms shall be put in place to monitor and quantify the types, volumes, and costs of information security incidents.
1	The organization:  a. Monitors physical access to the facility where the information system resides to detect and respond to physical security incidents;  b. Reviews physical access logs [Assignment: organization-defined frequency] and upon occurrence of [Assignment: organization-defined events or potential indications of events]; and  c. Coordinates results of reviews and investigations with the organizational incident response capability.	Ingress and egress points such as service areas and other points where unauthorized personnel may enter the premises shall be monitored, controlled and, if possible, isolated from data storage and processing facilities to prevent unauthorized data corruption, compromise, and loss.
0	Limit access to system components and cardholder data to only those individuals whose job requires such access.	A centralized, mobile device management solution shall be deployed to all mobile devices permitted to store, transmit, or process customer data.
0	Configure monitoring systems to record network packets passing through the boundary at each of the organization’s network boundaries.	Upon termination of workforce personnel and/or expiration of external business relationships, all organizationally-owned assets shall be returned within an established period.
0	The organization:  a. Develops, documents, and disseminates to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]:    1. A security awareness and training policy that addresses purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment, coordination among organizational entities, and compliance; and    2.  Procedures to facilitate the implementation of the security awareness and training policy and associated security awareness and training controls; and  b. Reviews and updates the current:    1. Security awareness and training policy [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and    2.  Security awareness and training procedures [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	The provider shall perform annual internal assessments of conformance to, and effectiveness of, its policies, procedures, and supporting measures and metrics.
1	The information system enforces access restrictions and supports auditing of the enforcement actions.	User access to diagnostic and configuration ports shall be restricted to authorized individuals and applications.
0	To protect the organization's interests as part of the process of changing or terminating employment.	Production data shall not be replicated or used in non-production environments. Any use of customer data in non-production environments requires explicit, documented approval from all customers whose data is affected, and must comply with all legal and regulatory requirements for scrubbing of sensitive data elements.
0	When operating platforms are changed, business critical applications shall be reviewed and tested to ensure there is no adverse impact on organizational operations or security.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for appropriate IT governance and service management to ensure appropriate planning, delivery, and support of the organization's IT capabilities supporting business functions, workforce, and/or customers based on industry acceptable standards (i.e., ITIL v4 and COBIT 5). Additionally, policies and procedures shall include defined roles and responsibilities supported by regular workforce training.
0	Additional requirement for service providers only: Respond to failures of any critical security controls in a timely manner. Processes for responding to failures in security controls must include:  Restoring security functions  Identifying and documenting the duration (date and time start to end) of the security failure  Identifying and documenting cause(s) of failure, including root cause, and documenting remediation required to address root cause  Identifying and addressing any security issues that arose during the failure  Performing a risk assessment to determine whether further actions are required as a result of the security failure  Implementing controls to prevent cause of failure from reoccurring  Resuming monitoring of security controls	BYOD and/or company-owned devices are configured to require an automatic lockout screen, and the requirement shall be enforced through technical controls.
0	Cryptographic controls shall be used in compliance with all relevant agreements, legislation and regulations.	Providers shall review the risk management and governance processes of their partners so that practices are consistent and aligned to account for risks inherited from other members of that partner's cloud supply chain.
1	Monitor and analyze security alerts and information, and distribute to appropriate personnel.	Higher levels of assurance are required for protection, retention, and lifecycle management of audit logs, adhering to applicable legal, statutory or regulatory compliance obligations and providing unique user access accountability to detect potentially suspicious network behaviors and/or file integrity anomalies, and to support forensic investigative capabilities in the event of a security breach.
1	Review custom code prior to release to production or customers in order to identify any potential coding vulnerability (using either manual or automated processes) to include at least the following:  Code changes are reviewed by individuals other than the originating code author, and by individuals knowledgeable about code-review techniques and secure coding practices.  Code reviews ensure code is developed according to secure coding guidelines  Appropriate corrections are implemented prior to release.  Code-review results are reviewed and approved by management prior to release.(Continued on next page)PCI DSS Requirements	Policies and procedures shall be established and maintained in support of data security to include (confidentiality, integrity, and availability) across multiple system interfaces, jurisdictions, and business functions to prevent improper disclosure, alteration, or destruction.
0	The organization:  a. Develops a security assessment plan that describes the scope of the assessment including:    1. Security controls and control enhancements under assessment;    2. Assessment procedures to be used to determine security control effectiveness; and    3. Assessment environment, assessment team, and assessment roles and responsibilities;  b. Assesses the security controls in the information system and its environment of operation [Assignment: organization-defined frequency] to determine the extent to which the controls are implemented correctly, operating as intended, and producing the desired outcome with respect to meeting established security requirements;  c. Produces a security assessment report that documents the results of the assessment; and  d. Provides the results of the security control assessment to [Assignment: organization-defined individuals or roles].	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to inventory, document, and maintain data flows for data that is resident (permanently or temporarily) within the service's geographically distributed (physical and virtual) applications and infrastructure network and systems components and/or shared with other third parties to ascertain any regulatory, statutory, or supply chain agreement (SLA) compliance impact, and to address any other business risks associated with the data. Upon request, provider shall inform customer (tenant) of compliance impact and risk, especially if customer data is used as part of the services.
0	The organization:  (a)   Implements a managed interface for each external telecommunication service;   (b)   Establishes a traffic flow policy for each managed interface;  (c)   Protects the confidentiality and integrity of the information being transmitted across each interface;  (d)   Documents each exception to the traffic flow policy with a supporting mission/business need and duration of that need; and  (e)   Reviews exceptions to the traffic flow policy [Assignment: organization-defined frequency] and removes exceptions that are no longer supported by an explicit mission/business need.	All personnel shall be made aware of their roles and responsibilities for:  • Maintaining awareness and compliance with established policies and procedures and applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance obligations.  • Maintaining a safe and secure working environment
1	There shall be procedures in place to control the installation of software on operational systems.	Each operating system shall be hardened to provide only necessary ports, protocols, and services to meet business needs and have in place supporting technical controls such as: antivirus, file integrity monitoring, and logging as part of their baseline operating build standard or template.
1	The organization:  a. Develops, documents, and disseminates to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]:    1. A system maintenance policy that addresses purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment, coordination among organizational entities, and compliance; and    2. Procedures to facilitate the implementation of the system maintenance policy and associated system maintenance controls; and  b. Reviews and updates the current:    1. System maintenance policy [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and    2. System maintenance procedures [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	Information security policies and procedures shall be established and made readily available for review by all impacted personnel and external business relationships. Information security policies must be authorized by the organization's business leadership (or other accountable business role or function) and supported by a strategic business plan and an information security management program inclusive of defined information security roles and responsibilities for business leadership.
0	The information system accepts only FICAM-approved third-party credentials.	Executive and line management shall take formal action to support information security through clearly-documented direction and commitment, and shall ensure the action has been assigned.
0	o Are assets classified in terms of sensitivity and criticality? o If so, does the provider employ appropriate segregation between systems with different classifications and for a single customer who has systems with different security classifications? 	Keys must have identifiable owners (binding keys to identities) and there shall be key management policies.
1	Review custom code prior to release to production or customers in order to identify any potential coding vulnerability (using either manual or automated processes) to include at least the following:  Code changes are reviewed by individuals other than the originating code author, and by individuals knowledgeable about code-review techniques and secure coding practices.  Code reviews ensure code is developed according to secure coding guidelines  Appropriate corrections are implemented prior to release.  Code-review results are reviewed and approved by management prior to release.(Continued on next page)PCI DSS Requirements	Policies and procedures shall be established for managing the risks associated with applying changes to:  • Business-critical or customer (tenant)-impacting (physical and virtual) applications and system-system interface (API) designs and configurations.  • Infrastructure network and systems components. Technical measures shall be implemented to provide assurance that all changes directly correspond to a registered change request, business-critical or customer (tenant), and/or authorization by, the customer (tenant) as per agreement (SLA) prior to deployment.
1	Access to information systems audit tools shall be protected to prevent any possible misuse or compromise.	Access to, and use of, audit tools that interact with the organization's information systems shall be appropriately segregated and access restricted to prevent inappropriate disclosure and tampering of log data.
1	Limit access to system components and cardholder data to only those individuals whose job requires such access.	Utility programs capable of potentially overriding system, object, network, virtual machine, and application controls shall be restricted.
0	Data protection and privacy shall be ensured as required in relevant legislation, regulations, and contractual clauses.	Risk assessments associated with data governance requirements shall be conducted at planned intervals and shall consider the following:  • Awareness of where sensitive data is stored and transmitted across applications, databases, servers, and network infrastructure  • Compliance with defined retention periods and end-of-life disposal requirements  • Data classification and protection from unauthorized use, access, loss, destruction, and falsification
0	Utilize an up-to-date SCAP-compliant vulnerability scanning tool to automatically scan all systems on the network on a weekly or more frequent basis to identify all potential vulnerabilities on the organization’s systems.	Audit plans shall be developed and maintained to address business process disruptions. Auditing plans shall focus on reviewing the effectiveness of the implementation of security operations. All audit activities must be agreed upon prior to executing any audits.
0	The information security related requirements shall be included in the requirements for new information systems or enhancements to existing information systems.	Information system documentation (e.g., administrator and user guides, and architecture diagrams) shall be made available to authorized personnel to ensure the following:  • Configuring, installing, and operating the information system  • Effectively using the system’s security features
0	Maintain an up-to-date list of devices. The list should include the following:  Make, model of device  Location of device (for example, the address of the site or facility where the device is located)  Device serial number or other method of unique identification.PCI DSS Requirements	Supply chain agreements (e.g., SLAs) between providers and customers (tenants) shall incorporate at least the following mutually-agreed upon provisions and/or terms:  • Scope of business relationship and services offered (e.g., customer (tenant) data acquisition, exchange and usage, feature sets and functionality, personnel and infrastructure network and systems components for service delivery and support, roles and responsibilities of provider and customer (tenant) and any subcontracted or outsourced business relationships, physical geographical location of hosted services, and any known regulatory compliance considerations)  • Information security requirements, provider and customer (tenant) primary points of contact for the duration of the business relationship, and references to detailed supporting and relevant business processes and technical measures implemented to enable effectively governance, risk management, assurance and legal, statutory and regulatory compliance obligations by all impacted business relationships  • Notification and/or pre-authorization of any changes controlled by the provider with customer (tenant) impacts  • Timely notification of a security incident (or confirmed breach) to all customers (tenants) and other business relationships impacted (i.e., up- and down-stream impacted supply chain)  • Assessment and independent verification of compliance with agreement provisions and/or terms (e.g., industry-acceptable certification, attestation audit report, or equivalent forms of assurance) without posing an unacceptable business risk of exposure to the organization being assessed  • Expiration of the business relationship and treatment of customer (tenant) data impacted  • Customer (tenant) service-to-service application (API) and data interoperability and portability requirements for application development and information exchange, usage, and integrity persistence
1	Physically secure all media.	Physical protection against damage from natural causes and disasters, as well as deliberate attacks, including fire, flood, atmospheric electrical discharge, solar induced geomagnetic storm, wind, earthquake, tsunami, explosion, nuclear accident, volcanic activity, biological hazard, civil unrest, mudslide, tectonic activity, and other forms of natural or man-made disaster shall be anticipated, designed, and have countermeasures applied.
0	Networks shall be managed and controlled in order to protect the organization from threats and to maintain security for the systems and applications using the network, including information in transit.	The company shall have a documented application validation process to test for mobile device, operating system, and application compatibility issues.
1	Visitors are asked to surrender the badge or identification before leaving the facility or at the date of expiration.	Physical access to information assets and functions by users and support personnel shall be restricted.
0	Appropriate procedures shall be implemented to ensure compliance with legislative, regulatory and contractual requirements related to intellectual property rights and use of proprietary software products.	Appropriate procedures shall be implemented to ensure compliance with legislative, regulatory and contractual requirements related to intellectual property rights and use of proprietary software products.
0	Where multi-factor authentication is not supported (such as local administrator, root, or service accounts), accounts will use passwords that are unique to that system.	Where multi-factor authentication is not supported (such as local administrator, root, or service accounts), accounts will use passwords that are unique to that system.
0	When operating platforms are changed, business critical applications shall be reviewed and tested to ensure there is no adverse impact on organizational operations or security.	Data input and output integrity routines (i.e., reconciliation and edit checks) shall be implemented for application interfaces and databases to prevent manual or systematic processing errors, corruption of data, or misuse.
0	A formal policy shall be in place, and appropriate security measures shall be adopted to protect against the risks of using mobile computing and communication devices.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for equipment maintenance ensuring continuity and availability of operations and support personnel.
0	The organization tracks and documents information system security incidents.	Data related to electronic commerce (ecommerce) that traverses public networks shall be appropriately classified and protected from fraudulent activity, unauthorized disclosure, or modification in such a manner to prevent contract dispute and compromise of data.
1	Conflicting duties and areas of responsibility shall be segregated to reduce opportunities for unauthorized or unintentional modification or misuse of the organization's assets.	User access policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for restricting user access as per defined segregation of duties to address business risks associated with a user-role conflict of interest.
1	The organization establishes terms and conditions, consistent with any trust relationships established with other organizations owning, operating, and/or maintaining external information systems, allowing authorized individuals to:  a. Access the information system from external information systems; and  b. Process, store, or transmit organization-controlled information using external information systems.	The BYOD policy and supporting awareness training clearly states the approved applications, application stores, and application extensions and plugins that may be used for BYOD usage.
0	The software inventory system should track the name, version, publisher, and install date for all software, including operating systems authorized by the organization.	External business partners shall adhere to the same policies and procedures for change management, release, and testing as internal developers within the organization (e.g., ITIL service management processes).
1	When operating platforms are changed, business critical applications shall be reviewed and tested to ensure there is no adverse impact on organizational operations or security.	The company shall have a documented application validation process to test for mobile device, operating system, and application compatibility issues.
1	The organization:  (a)   Conducts an organizational assessment of risk prior to the acquisition or outsourcing of dedicated information security services; and  (b)   Ensures that the acquisition or outsourcing of dedicated information security services is approved by [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles].	All cloud-based services used by the company's mobile devices or BYOD shall be pre-approved for usage and the storage of company business data.
0	Train workforce members on the importance of enabling and utilizing secure authentication.	Policies and procedures shall be established for the management of cryptographic keys in the service's cryptosystem (e.g., lifecycle management from key generation to revocation and replacement, public key infrastructure, cryptographic protocol design and algorithms used, access controls in place for secure key generation, and exchange and storage including segregation of keys used for encrypted data or sessions). Upon request, provider shall inform the customer (tenant) of changes within the cryptosystem, especially if the customer (tenant) data is used as part of the service, and/or the customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of the control.
0	The organization:  (a)   Develops primary and alternate telecommunications service agreements that contain priority- of-service provisions in accordance with organizational availability requirements (including recovery time objectives); and  (b)   Requests Telecommunications Service Priority for all telecommunications services used for national security emergency preparedness in the event that the primary and/or alternate telecommunications services are provided by a common carrier.	Automated equipment identification shall be used as a method of connection authentication. Location-aware technologies may be used to validate connection authentication integrity based on known equipment location.
0	Visitors are authorized before entering, and escorted at all times within, areas where cardholder data is processed or maintained.	All personnel shall be made aware of their roles and responsibilities for:  • Maintaining awareness and compliance with established policies and procedures and applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance obligations.  • Maintaining a safe and secure working environment
0	Ensure that all users with administrative account access use a dedicated or secondary account for elevated activities. This account should only be used for administrative activities and not internet browsing, email, or similar activities.	An Information Security Management Program (ISMP) shall be developed, documented, approved, and implemented that includes administrative, technical, and physical safeguards to protect assets and data from loss, misuse, unauthorized access, disclosure, alteration, and destruction. The security program shall include, but not be limited to, the following areas insofar as they relate to the characteristics of the business:  • Risk management  • Security policy  • Organization of information security  • Asset management  • Human resources security  • Physical and environmental security  • Communications and operations management  • Access control  • Information systems acquisition, development, and maintenance
0	• Do you have stand-alone generators in the event of a power failure? o For how long can they run? o Are there adequate fuel supplies? o Are there failover generators? o How often do you check UPS equipment? o How often do you check your generators? o Do you have multiple power suppliers? 	Audit plans shall be developed and maintained to address business process disruptions. Auditing plans shall focus on reviewing the effectiveness of the implementation of security operations. All audit activities must be agreed upon prior to executing any audits.
0	Information systems shall be regularly reviewed for compliance with the organization's information security policies and standards.	User access to diagnostic and configuration ports shall be restricted to authorized individuals and applications.
0	Use appropriate facility entry controls to limit and monitor physical access to systems in the cardholder data environment.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for the use of encryption protocols for protection of sensitive data in storage (e.g., file servers, databases, and end-user workstations), data in use (memory), and data in transmission (e.g., system interfaces, over public networks, and electronic messaging) as per applicable legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations.
0	Ensure that anti-virus mechanisms are actively running and cannot be disabled or altered by users, unless specifically authorized by management on a case-by-case basis for a limited time period.	The provider shall ensure the integrity of all virtual machine images at all times. Any changes made to virtual machine images must be logged and an alert raised regardless of their running state (e.g., dormant, off, or running). The results of a change or move of an image and the subsequent validation of the image's integrity must be immediately available to customers through electronic methods (e.g., portals or alerts).
0	The organization:  a. Enforces physical access authorizations at [Assignment: organization-defined entry/exit points to the facility where the information system resides] by;    1. Verifying individual access authorizations before granting access to the facility; and    2. Controlling ingress/egress to the facility using [Selection (one or more): [Assignment: organization-defined physical access control systems/devices]; guards];  b. Maintains physical access audit logs for [Assignment: organization-defined entry/exit points];  c. Provides [Assignment: organization-defined security safeguards] to control access to areas within the facility officially designated as publicly accessible;  d. Escorts visitors and monitors visitor activity [Assignment: organization-defined circumstances requiring visitor escorts and monitoring];  e. Secures keys, combinations, and other physical access devices;  f. Inventories [Assignment: organization-defined physical access devices] every [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and  g. Changes combinations and keys [Assignment: organization-defined frequency] and/or when keys are lost, combinations are compromised, or individuals are transferred or terminated.	Providers shall inspect, account for, and work with their cloud supply-chain partners to correct data quality errors and associated risks. Providers shall design and implement controls to mitigate and contain data security risks through proper separation of duties, role-based access, and least-privilege access for all personnel within their supply chain.
0	Subscribe to URL categorization services to ensure that they are up-to-date with the most recent website category definitions available. Uncategorized sites shall be blocked by default.	Mechanisms shall be put in place to monitor and quantify the types, volumes, and costs of information security incidents.
1	Data output from an application shall be validated to ensure that the processing of stored information is correct and appropriate to the circumstances.	Data input and output integrity routines (i.e., reconciliation and edit checks) shall be implemented for application interfaces and databases to prevent manual or systematic processing errors, corruption of data, or misuse.
0	· Detail policies and procedures for backup. This should include procedures for the management of removable media and methods for securely destroying media no longer required. (Depending on his business requirements, the customer may wish to put in place an independent backup strategy. This is particularly relevant where time-critical access to back-up is required.)	The organization's business leadership (or other accountable business role or function) shall review the information security policy at planned intervals or as a result of changes to the organization to ensure its continuing alignment with the security strategy, effectiveness, accuracy, relevance, and applicability to legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance obligations.
0	The information system implements nonsignature-based malicious code detection mechanisms.	Keys must have identifiable owners (binding keys to identities) and there shall be key management policies.
1	o Does the provider collect incident metrics and indicators (ie,. number of detected or reported incidents per months, number of incidents caused by the cloud provider’s subcontractors and the total number of such incidents, average time to respond and to resolve, etc)?). o Which of these does the provider make publicly available (NB not all incident reporting data can be made public since it may compromise customer confidentiality and reveal security critical information)??) 	Mechanisms shall be put in place to monitor and quantify the types, volumes, and costs of information security incidents.
1	Removal of test data and accounts from system components before the system becomes active / goes into production.	External business partners shall adhere to the same policies and procedures for change management, release, and testing as internal developers within the organization (e.g., ITIL service management processes).
1	Deploy a change-detection mechanism (for example, file-integrity monitoring tools) to alert personnel to unauthorized modification (including changes, additions, and deletions) of critical system files, configuration files, or content files; and configure the software to perform critical file comparisons at least weekly.	Policies and procedures shall be established and maintained in support of data security to include (confidentiality, integrity, and availability) across multiple system interfaces, jurisdictions, and business functions to prevent improper disclosure, alteration, or destruction.
1	Ensure that all system components and software are protected from known vulnerabilities by installing applicable vendor- supplied security patches. Install critical security patches within one month of release.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to restrict the installation of unauthorized software on organizationally-owned or managed user end-point devices (e.g., issued workstations, laptops, and mobile devices) and IT infrastructure network and systems components.
1	Information systems shall be regularly reviewed for compliance with the organization's information security policies and standards.	The mobile device policy shall prohibit the circumvention of built-in security controls on mobile devices (e.g., jailbreaking or rooting) and shall enforce the prohibition through detective and preventative controls on the device or through a centralized device management system (e.g., mobile device management).
0	When operating platforms are changed, business critical applications shall be reviewed and tested to ensure there is no adverse impact on organizational operations or security.	There shall be a defined and documented method for determining the impact of any disruption to the organization (cloud provider, cloud consumer) that must incorporate the following:  • Identify critical products and services  • Identify all dependencies, including processes, applications, business partners, and third party service providers  • Understand threats to critical products and services  • Determine impacts resulting from planned or unplanned disruptions and how these vary over time  • Establish the maximum tolerable period for disruption  • Establish priorities for recovery  • Establish recovery time objectives for resumption of critical products and services within their maximum tolerable period of disruption  • Estimate the resources required for resumption
0	All “high risk” vulnerabilities identified in the vulnerability identification process (as defined in PCI DSS Requirement 6.1).	Data input and output integrity routines (i.e., reconciliation and edit checks) shall be implemented for application interfaces and databases to prevent manual or systematic processing errors, corruption of data, or misuse.
1	• Do any accounts have system-wide privileges for the entire cloud system and, if so, for what operations (read/write/delete)?	Provisioning user access (e.g., employees, contractors, customers (tenants), business partners, and/or supplier relationships) to data and organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) applications, infrastructure systems, and network components shall be authorized by the organization's management prior to access being granted and appropriately restricted as per established policies and procedures. Upon request, provider shall inform customer (tenant) of this user access, especially if customer (tenant) data is used as part the service and/or customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of control.
1	Ensure that anti-virus mechanisms are actively running and cannot be disabled or altered by users, unless specifically authorized by management on a case-by-case basis for a limited time period.	Physical protection against damage from natural causes and disasters, as well as deliberate attacks, including fire, flood, atmospheric electrical discharge, solar induced geomagnetic storm, wind, earthquake, tsunami, explosion, nuclear accident, volcanic activity, biological hazard, civil unrest, mudslide, tectonic activity, and other forms of natural or man-made disaster shall be anticipated, designed, and have countermeasures applied.
0	Management shall actively support security within the organization through clear direction, demonstrated commitment, explicit assignment, and acknowledgment of information security responsibilities.	Timely de-provisioning (revocation or modification) of user access to data and organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) applications, infrastructure systems, and network components, shall be implemented as per established policies and procedures and based on user's change in status (e.g., termination of employment or other business relationship, job change, or transfer). Upon request, provider shall inform customer (tenant) of these changes, especially if customer (tenant) data is used as part the service and/or customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of control.
1	Store cryptographic keys in the fewest possible locations.	Policies and procedures shall be established for the management of cryptographic keys in the service's cryptosystem (e.g., lifecycle management from key generation to revocation and replacement, public key infrastructure, cryptographic protocol design and algorithms used, access controls in place for secure key generation, and exchange and storage including segregation of keys used for encrypted data or sessions). Upon request, provider shall inform the customer (tenant) of changes within the cryptosystem, especially if the customer (tenant) data is used as part of the service, and/or the customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of the control.
1	Apply static and dynamic analysis tools to verify that secure coding practices are being adhered to for internally developed software.	Data input and output integrity routines (i.e., reconciliation and edit checks) shall be implemented for application interfaces and databases to prevent manual or systematic processing errors, corruption of data, or misuse.
0	Asset owners shall review users' access rights at regular intervals.	All personnel shall be made aware of their roles and responsibilities for:  • Maintaining awareness and compliance with established policies and procedures and applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance obligations.  • Maintaining a safe and secure working environment
0	All relevant information security requirements shall be established and agreed with each supplier that may access, process, store, communicate, or provide IT infrastructure components for, the organization's information.	Providers shall review the risk management and governance processes of their partners so that practices are consistent and aligned to account for risks inherited from other members of that partner's cloud supply chain.
1	• What data storage and protection controls apply to the user directory (eg, AD, LDAP) and access to it?	Policies and procedures shall be established and maintained in support of data security to include (confidentiality, integrity, and availability) across multiple system interfaces, jurisdictions, and business functions to prevent improper disclosure, alteration, or destruction.
0	The organization [Selection: restricts; prohibits] the use of organization-controlled portable storage devices by authorized individuals on external information systems.	Timely de-provisioning (revocation or modification) of user access to data and organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) applications, infrastructure systems, and network components, shall be implemented as per established policies and procedures and based on user's change in status (e.g., termination of employment or other business relationship, job change, or transfer). Upon request, provider shall inform customer (tenant) of these changes, especially if customer (tenant) data is used as part the service and/or customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of control.
1	Managers shall regularly review the compliance of information processing and procedures within their area of responsibility with the appropriate security policies, standards and any other security requirements.	Anti-malware awareness training, specific to mobile devices, shall be included in the provider's information security awareness training.
0	Visitors are authorized before entering, and escorted at all times within, areas where cardholder data is processed or maintained.	Anti-malware awareness training, specific to mobile devices, shall be included in the provider's information security awareness training.
1	Ensure that security policies and operational procedures for managing vendor defaults and other security parameters are documented, in use, and known to all affected parties.	Each operating system shall be hardened to provide only necessary ports, protocols, and services to meet business needs and have in place supporting technical controls such as: antivirus, file integrity monitoring, and logging as part of their baseline operating build standard or template.
0	• Can you ensure that the patch management process covers all layers of the cloud delivery technologies – i.e., network (infrastructure components, routers and switches, etc), server operating systems, virtualisation software, applications and security subsystems (firewalls, antivirus gateways, intrusion detection systems, etc)?	Higher levels of assurance are required for protection, retention, and lifecycle management of audit logs, adhering to applicable legal, statutory or regulatory compliance obligations and providing unique user access accountability to detect potentially suspicious network behaviors and/or file integrity anomalies, and to support forensic investigative capabilities in the event of a security breach.
0	Limit access to system components and cardholder data to only those individuals whose job requires such access.	The availability, quality, and adequate capacity and resources shall be planned, prepared, and measured to deliver the required system performance in accordance with legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations. Projections of future capacity requirements shall be made to mitigate the risk of system overload.
0	Password management systems shall be interactive and shall ensure quality passwords.	Audit plans shall be developed and maintained to address business process disruptions. Auditing plans shall focus on reviewing the effectiveness of the implementation of security operations. All audit activities must be agreed upon prior to executing any audits.
1	The organization employs the principle of least privilege, allowing only authorized accesses for users (or processes acting on behalf of users) which are necessary to accomplish assigned tasks in accordance with organizational missions and business functions.	All data shall be designated with stewardship, with assigned responsibilities defined, documented, and communicated.
1	The organization:  a. Develops, documents, and disseminates to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]:    1. A security planning policy that addresses purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment, coordination among organizational entities, and compliance; and    2. Procedures to facilitate the implementation of the security planning policy and associated security planning controls; and  b. Reviews and updates the current:    1. Security planning policy [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and    2. Security planning procedures [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	The organization's business leadership (or other accountable business role or function) shall review the information security policy at planned intervals or as a result of changes to the organization to ensure its continuing alignment with the security strategy, effectiveness, accuracy, relevance, and applicability to legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance obligations.
0	All configuration rules that allow traffic to flow through network devices should be documented in a configuration management system with a specific business reason for each rule, a specific individual’s name responsible for that business need, and an expected duration of the need.	Risk assessment results shall include updates to security policies, procedures, standards, and controls to ensure that they remain relevant and effective.
1	Address common coding vulnerabilities in software-development processes as follows:  Train developers at least annually in up- to-date secure coding techniques, including how to avoid common coding vulnerabilities.  Develop applications based on secure coding guidelines.	Organizations shall follow a defined quality change control and testing process (e.g., ITIL Service Management) with established baselines, testing, and release standards that focus on system availability, confidentiality, and integrity of systems and services.
1	When operating platforms are changed, business critical applications shall be reviewed and tested to ensure there is no adverse impact on organizational operations or security.	Mobile devices connecting to corporate networks, or storing and accessing company information, shall allow for remote software version/patch validation. All mobile devices shall have the latest available security-related patches installed upon general release by the device manufacturer or carrier and authorized IT personnel shall be able to perform these updates remotely.
1	Changes to the organization, business processes, information processing facilities and systems that affect information security shall be controlled.	The provider shall ensure the integrity of all virtual machine images at all times. Any changes made to virtual machine images must be logged and an alert raised regardless of their running state (e.g., dormant, off, or running). The results of a change or move of an image and the subsequent validation of the image's integrity must be immediately available to customers through electronic methods (e.g., portals or alerts).
0	Acceptance criteria for new information systems, upgrades, and new versions shall be established and suitable tests of the system(s) carried out during development and prior to acceptance to maintain security.	Information security policies and procedures shall be established and made readily available for review by all impacted personnel and external business relationships. Information security policies must be authorized by the organization's business leadership (or other accountable business role or function) and supported by a strategic business plan and an information security management program inclusive of defined information security roles and responsibilities for business leadership.
0	Users shall only be provided with access to the network and network services that they have been specifically authorized to use.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting processes and technical measures implemented, for timely detection of vulnerabilities within organizationally-owned or managed applications, infrastructure network and system components (e.g., network vulnerability assessment, penetration testing) to ensure the efficiency of implemented security controls. A risk-based model for prioritizing remediation of identified vulnerabilities shall be used. Changes shall be managed through a change management process for all vendor-supplied patches, configuration changes, or changes to the organization's internally developed software. Upon request, the provider informs customer (tenant) of policies and procedures and identified weaknesses especially if customer (tenant) data is used as part the service and/or customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of control.
0	Assets maintained in the inventory shall be owned.	To reduce the risks from environmental threats, hazards, and opportunities for unauthorized access, equipment shall be kept away from locations subject to high probability environmental risks and supplemented by redundant equipment located at a reasonable distance.
1	The organization:  a. Develops, documents, and disseminates to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]:    1. A contingency planning policy that addresses purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment, coordination among organizational entities, and compliance; and    2. Procedures to facilitate the implementation of the contingency planning policy and associated contingency planning controls; and  b. Reviews and updates the current:    1. Contingency planning policy [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and    2. Contingency planning procedures [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	A consistent unified framework for business continuity planning and plan development shall be established, documented, and adopted to ensure all business continuity plans are consistent in addressing priorities for testing, maintenance, and information security requirements.  Requirements for business continuity plans include the following:  • Defined purpose and scope, aligned with relevant dependencies  • Accessible to and understood by those who will use them  • Owned by a named person(s) who is responsible for their review, update, and approval  • Defined lines of communication, roles, and responsibilities  • Detailed recovery procedures, manual work-around, and reference information  • Method for plan invocation
1	Deploy an automated tool on network perimeters that monitors for unauthorized transfer of sensitive information and blocks such transfers while alerting information security professionals.	Higher levels of assurance are required for protection, retention, and lifecycle management of audit logs, adhering to applicable legal, statutory or regulatory compliance obligations and providing unique user access accountability to detect potentially suspicious network behaviors and/or file integrity anomalies, and to support forensic investigative capabilities in the event of a security breach.
0	Ensure that security policies and operational procedures for managing vendor defaults and other security parameters are documented, in use, and known to all affected parties.	Access to, and use of, audit tools that interact with the organization's information systems shall be appropriately segregated and access restricted to prevent inappropriate disclosure and tampering of log data.
0	The organization requires the developer of the information system, system component, or information system service to provide a description of the functional properties of the security controls to be employed.	The organization requires the developer of the information system, system component, or information system service to provide a description of the functional properties of the security controls to be employed.
1	Maintain a written agreement that includes an acknowledgement that the service providers are responsible for the security of cardholder data the service providers possess or otherwise store, process or transmit on behalf of the customer, or to the extent that they could impact the security of the customer’s cardholder data environment.	Supply chain agreements (e.g., SLAs) between providers and customers (tenants) shall incorporate at least the following mutually-agreed upon provisions and/or terms:  • Scope of business relationship and services offered (e.g., customer (tenant) data acquisition, exchange and usage, feature sets and functionality, personnel and infrastructure network and systems components for service delivery and support, roles and responsibilities of provider and customer (tenant) and any subcontracted or outsourced business relationships, physical geographical location of hosted services, and any known regulatory compliance considerations)  • Information security requirements, provider and customer (tenant) primary points of contact for the duration of the business relationship, and references to detailed supporting and relevant business processes and technical measures implemented to enable effectively governance, risk management, assurance and legal, statutory and regulatory compliance obligations by all impacted business relationships  • Notification and/or pre-authorization of any changes controlled by the provider with customer (tenant) impacts  • Timely notification of a security incident (or confirmed breach) to all customers (tenants) and other business relationships impacted (i.e., up- and down-stream impacted supply chain)  • Assessment and independent verification of compliance with agreement provisions and/or terms (e.g., industry-acceptable certification, attestation audit report, or equivalent forms of assurance) without posing an unacceptable business risk of exposure to the organization being assessed  • Expiration of the business relationship and treatment of customer (tenant) data impacted  • Customer (tenant) service-to-service application (API) and data interoperability and portability requirements for application development and information exchange, usage, and integrity persistence
1	Managers shall regularly review the compliance of information processing and procedures within their area of responsibility with the appropriate security policies, standards and any other security requirements.	The mobile device policy shall prohibit the circumvention of built-in security controls on mobile devices (e.g., jailbreaking or rooting) and shall enforce the prohibition through detective and preventative controls on the device or through a centralized device management system (e.g., mobile device management).
0	The organization:  a. Marks information system media indicating the distribution limitations, handling caveats, and applicable security markings (if any) of the information; and  b. Exempts [Assignment: organization-defined types of information system media] from marking as long as the media remain within [Assignment: organization-defined controlled areas].	Multi-tenant organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) applications, and infrastructure system and network components, shall be designed, developed, deployed, and configured such that provider and customer (tenant) user access is appropriately segmented from other tenant users, based on the following considerations:  • Established policies and procedures  • Isolation of business critical assets and/or sensitive user data, and sessions that mandate stronger internal controls and high levels of assurance  • Compliance with legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations
1	• Is the hardened virtual image protected from unauthorized access?	Provisioning user access (e.g., employees, contractors, customers (tenants), business partners, and/or supplier relationships) to data and organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) applications, infrastructure systems, and network components shall be authorized by the organization's management prior to access being granted and appropriately restricted as per established policies and procedures. Upon request, provider shall inform customer (tenant) of this user access, especially if customer (tenant) data is used as part the service and/or customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of control.
0	A visitor log is used to maintain a physical audit trail of visitor activity to the facility as well as computer rooms and data centers where cardholder data is stored or transmitted.	Physical protection against damage from natural causes and disasters, as well as deliberate attacks, including fire, flood, atmospheric electrical discharge, solar induced geomagnetic storm, wind, earthquake, tsunami, explosion, nuclear accident, volcanic activity, biological hazard, civil unrest, mudslide, tectonic activity, and other forms of natural or man-made disaster shall be anticipated, designed, and have countermeasures applied.
0	The organization:  a. Develops, documents, and disseminates to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]:    1. A physical and environmental protection policy that addresses purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment, coordination among organizational entities, and compliance; and    2. Procedures to facilitate the implementation of the physical and environmental protection policy and associated physical and environmental protection controls; and  b. Reviews and updates the current:    1. Physical and environmental protection policy [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and    2. Physical and environmental protection procedures [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	Policies and procedures shall be established for the management of cryptographic keys in the service's cryptosystem (e.g., lifecycle management from key generation to revocation and replacement, public key infrastructure, cryptographic protocol design and algorithms used, access controls in place for secure key generation, and exchange and storage including segregation of keys used for encrypted data or sessions). Upon request, provider shall inform the customer (tenant) of changes within the cryptosystem, especially if the customer (tenant) data is used as part of the service, and/or the customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of the control.
0	The organization:  a. Develops, documents, and disseminates to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]:    1. A security planning policy that addresses purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment, coordination among organizational entities, and compliance; and    2. Procedures to facilitate the implementation of the security planning policy and associated security planning controls; and  b. Reviews and updates the current:    1. Security planning policy [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and    2. Security planning procedures [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	Policies and procedures shall be established with supporting business processes and technical measures implemented for the secure disposal and complete removal of data from all storage media, ensuring data is not recoverable by any computer forensic means.
0	： To ensure protection of the organization's assets that is accessible by suppliers.	Upon termination of workforce personnel and/or expiration of external business relationships, all organizationally-owned assets shall be returned within an established period.
1	The organization documents in the security plan for the information system, the policies and procedures for the establishment and use of nonlocal maintenance and diagnostic connections. 	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for equipment maintenance ensuring continuity and availability of operations and support personnel.
0	： To prevent exploitation of technical vulnerabilities.	： To prevent exploitation of technical vulnerabilities.
0	Maintain standard, documented security configuration standards for all authorized network devices.	Data related to electronic commerce (ecommerce) that traverses public networks shall be appropriately classified and protected from fraudulent activity, unauthorized disclosure, or modification in such a manner to prevent contract dispute and compromise of data.
1	The organization: a. Identifies, reports, and corrects information system flaws; b. Tests software and firmware updates related to flaw remediation for effectiveness and potential side effects before installation; c. Installs security-relevant software and firmware updates within [Assignment: organization- defined time period] of the release of the updates; and d. Incorporates flaw remediation into the organizational configuration management process. Supplemental Guidance:  Organizations identify information systems affected by announced software flaws including potential vulnerabilities resulting from those flaws, and report this information to designated organizational personnel with information security responsibilities. Security-relevant software updates include, for example, patches, service packs, hot fixes, and anti-virus signatures. Organizations also address flaws discovered during security assessments, continuous monitoring, incident response activities, and system error handling. Organizations take advantage of available resources such as the Common Weakness Enumeration (CWE) or Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVE) databases in remediating flaws discovered in organizational information systems. By incorporating flaw remediation into ongoing configuration management processes, required/anticipated remediation actions can be tracked and verified. Flaw remediation actions that can be tracked and verified include, for example, determining whether organizations follow US-CERT guidance and Information Assurance Vulnerability Alerts. Organization-defined time periods for updating security-relevant software and firmware may vary based on a variety of factors including, for example, the security category of the information system or the criticality of the update (i.e., severity of the vulnerability related to the discovered flaw). Some types of flaw remediation may require more testing than other types. Organizations determine the degree and type of testing needed for the specific type of flaw remediation activity under consideration and also the types of changes that are to be configuration-managed. In some situations, organizations may determine that the testing of software and/or firmware updates is not necessary or practical, for example, when implementing simple anti-virus signature updates. Organizations may also consider in testing decisions, whether security-relevant software or firmware updates are obtained from authorized sources with appropriate digital signatures. Related controls: CA-2, CA-7, CM-3, CM-5, CM-8, MA-2, IR-4, RA-5, SA-10, SA-11, SI-11.	Applications and programming interfaces (APIs) shall be designed, developed, deployed, and tested in accordance with leading industry standards (e.g., OWASP for web applications) and adhere to applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance obligations.
1	Information systems shall be regularly reviewed for compliance with the organization's information security policies and standards.	Higher levels of assurance are required for protection, retention, and lifecycle management of audit logs, adhering to applicable legal, statutory or regulatory compliance obligations and providing unique user access accountability to detect potentially suspicious network behaviors and/or file integrity anomalies, and to support forensic investigative capabilities in the event of a security breach.
1	Review logs and security events for all system components to identify anomalies or suspicious activity.	Higher levels of assurance are required for protection, retention, and lifecycle management of audit logs, adhering to applicable legal, statutory or regulatory compliance obligations and providing unique user access accountability to detect potentially suspicious network behaviors and/or file integrity anomalies, and to support forensic investigative capabilities in the event of a security breach.
0	• In the event of resource overload (processing, memory, storage, network)? o What information is given about the relative priority assigned to my request in the event of a failure in provisioning? o Is there a lead time on service levels and changes in requirements? 	Physical access to information assets and functions by users and support personnel shall be restricted.
0	A policy on the use of cryptographic controls for protection of information shall be developed and implemented.	User access shall be authorized and revalidated for entitlement appropriateness, at planned intervals, by the organization's business leadership or other accountable business role or function supported by evidence to demonstrate the organization is adhering to the rule of least privilege based on job function. For identified access violations, remediation must follow established user access policies and procedures.
1	• Are security controls in place for reading and writing those keys? For example, strong password policies, keys stored in a separate system, hardware security modules (HSM) for root certificate keys, smart card based authentication, direct shielded access to storage, short key lifetime, etc.	Policies and procedures shall be established for the management of cryptographic keys in the service's cryptosystem (e.g., lifecycle management from key generation to revocation and replacement, public key infrastructure, cryptographic protocol design and algorithms used, access controls in place for secure key generation, and exchange and storage including segregation of keys used for encrypted data or sessions). Upon request, provider shall inform the customer (tenant) of changes within the cryptosystem, especially if the customer (tenant) data is used as part of the service, and/or the customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of the control.
0	Managers shall ensure that all security procedures within their area of responsibility are carried out correctly to achieve compliance with security policies and standards.	Ingress and egress points such as service areas and other points where unauthorized personnel may enter the premises shall be monitored, controlled and, if possible, isolated from data storage and processing facilities to prevent unauthorized data corruption, compromise, and loss.
0	Deploy a change-detection mechanism (for example, file-integrity monitoring tools) to alert personnel to unauthorized modification (including changes, additions, and deletions) of critical system files, configuration files, or content files; and configure the software to perform critical file comparisons at least weekly.	Each operating system shall be hardened to provide only necessary ports, protocols, and services to meet business needs and have in place supporting technical controls such as: antivirus, file integrity monitoring, and logging as part of their baseline operating build standard or template.
1	• What data storage and protection controls apply to the user directory (eg, AD, LDAP) and access to it?	Data and objects containing data shall be assigned a classification by the data owner based on data type, value, sensitivity, and criticality to the organization.
1	• Will any of the cloud provider’s services be outsourced?	Organizations shall create and maintain a control framework which captures standards, regulatory, legal, and statutory requirements relevant for their business needs. The control framework shall be reviewed at least annually to ensure changes that could affect the business processes are reflected.
0	Assets associated with information and information processing facilities shall be identified and an inventory of these assets shall be drawn up and maintained.	Access to the organization's own developed applications, program, or object source code, or any other form of intellectual property (IP), and use of proprietary software shall be appropriately restricted following the rule of least privilege based on job function as per established user access policies and procedures.
1	Keep cardholder data storage to a minimum by implementing data retention and disposal policies, procedures and processes that include at least the following for all cardholder data (CHD) storage:  Limiting data storage amount and retention time to that which is required for legal, regulatory, and/or business requirements  Specific retention requirements for cardholder data  Processes for secure deletion of data when no longer needed  A quarterly process for identifying and securely deleting stored cardholder data that exceeds defined retention.PCI DSS Requirements	Policies and procedures shall be established with supporting business processes and technical measures implemented for the secure disposal and complete removal of data from all storage media, ensuring data is not recoverable by any computer forensic means.
1	The organization controls physical access to information system output devices to prevent unauthorized individuals from obtaining the output.	Ingress and egress points such as service areas and other points where unauthorized personnel may enter the premises shall be monitored, controlled and, if possible, isolated from data storage and processing facilities to prevent unauthorized data corruption, compromise, and loss.
0	The allocation of secret authentication information shall be controlled through a formal management process.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to prevent the execution of unauthorized mobile code, defined as software transferred between systems over a trusted or untrusted network and executed on a local system without explicit installation or execution by the recipient, on organizationally-owned or managed user end-point devices (e.g., issued workstations, laptops, and mobile devices) and IT infrastructure network and systems components.
1	Ensure that security policies and operational procedures for managing firewalls are documented, in use, and known to all affected parties.	Network environments and virtual instances shall be designed and configured to restrict and monitor traffic between trusted and untrusted connections. These configurations shall be reviewed at least annually, and supported by a documented justification for use for all allowed services, protocols, ports, and by compensating controls.
1	Physical protection against natural disasters, malicious attack or accidents shall be designed and applied.	Physical protection against damage from natural causes and disasters, as well as deliberate attacks, including fire, flood, atmospheric electrical discharge, solar induced geomagnetic storm, wind, earthquake, tsunami, explosion, nuclear accident, volcanic activity, biological hazard, civil unrest, mudslide, tectonic activity, and other forms of natural or man-made disaster shall be anticipated, designed, and have countermeasures applied.
0	Information systems shall be regularly reviewed for compliance with the organization's information security policies and standards.	The provider shall perform annual internal assessments of conformance to, and effectiveness of, its policies, procedures, and supporting measures and metrics.
0	Implement audit trails to link all access to system components to each individual user.	Policies and procedures shall be established and maintained in support of data security to include (confidentiality, integrity, and availability) across multiple system interfaces, jurisdictions, and business functions to prevent improper disclosure, alteration, or destruction.
0	Uninstall or disable any unauthorized browser or email client plugins or add-on applications.	Proper forensic procedures, including chain of custody, are required for the presentation of evidence to support potential legal action subject to the relevant jurisdiction after an information security incident. Upon notification, customers and/or other external business partners impacted by a security breach shall be given the opportunity to participate as is legally permissible in the forensic investigation.
0	The organization:  a. Develops, documents, and disseminates to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]:    1. A security planning policy that addresses purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment, coordination among organizational entities, and compliance; and    2. Procedures to facilitate the implementation of the security planning policy and associated security planning controls; and  b. Reviews and updates the current:    1. Security planning policy [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and    2. Security planning procedures [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	Providers shall assure reasonable information security across their information supply chain by performing an annual review. The review shall include all partners/third party-providers upon which their information supply chain depends on.
0	The organization:  (a)   Limits privileges to change information system components and system-related information within a production or operational environment; and  (b)   Reviews and reevaluates privileges [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	Roles and responsibilities for performing employment termination or change in employment procedures shall be assigned, documented, and communicated.
0	Utilize application whitelisting technology on all assets to ensure that only authorized software executes and all unauthorized software is blocked from executing on assets.	The provider shall use an industry-recognized virtualization platform and standard virtualization formats (e.g., OVF) to help ensure interoperability, and shall have documented custom changes made to any hypervisor in use and all solution-specific virtualization hooks available for customer review.
1	• When equipment is sent away for repair, is the data cleaned from it first? o How is this done? 	Authorization must be obtained prior to relocation or transfer of hardware, software, or data to an offsite premises.
0	A formal user access provisioning process shall be implemented to assign or revoke access rights for all user types to all systems and services.	Organizations shall follow a defined quality change control and testing process (e.g., ITIL Service Management) with established baselines, testing, and release standards that focus on system availability, confidentiality, and integrity of systems and services.
0	Ensure that security policies and operational procedures for managing firewalls are documented, in use, and known to all affected parties.	The provider shall use an industry-recognized virtualization platform and standard virtualization formats (e.g., OVF) to help ensure interoperability, and shall have documented custom changes made to any hypervisor in use and all solution-specific virtualization hooks available for customer review.
0	Decrypt all encrypted network traffic at the boundary proxy prior to analyzing the content. However, the organization may use whitelists of allowed sites that can be accessed through the proxy without decrypting the traffic.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to ensure the development and/or acquisition of new data, physical or virtual applications, infrastructure network, and systems components, or any corporate, operations and/or data center facilities have been pre-authorized by the organization's business leadership or other accountable business role or function.
1	• Does the client credential system allow for the separation of roles and responsibilities and for multiple domains (or a single key for multiple domains, roles and responsibilities)?	Multi-tenant organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) applications, and infrastructure system and network components, shall be designed, developed, deployed, and configured such that provider and customer (tenant) user access is appropriately segmented from other tenant users, based on the following considerations:  • Established policies and procedures  • Isolation of business critical assets and/or sensitive user data, and sessions that mandate stronger internal controls and high levels of assurance  • Compliance with legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations
1	Privacy and protection of personally identifiable information shall be ensured as required in relevant legislation and regulation where applicable.	Network environments and virtual instances shall be designed and configured to restrict and monitor traffic between trusted and untrusted connections. These configurations shall be reviewed at least annually, and supported by a documented justification for use for all allowed services, protocols, ports, and by compensating controls.
1	Change user passwords/passphrases at least once every 90 days.	Keys must have identifiable owners (binding keys to identities) and there shall be key management policies.
1	If disk encryption is used (rather than file- or column-level database encryption), logical access must be managed separately and independently of native operating system authentication and access control mechanisms (for example, by not using local user account databases or general network login credentials). Decryption keys must not be associated with user accounts.	Policies and procedures shall be established for the management of cryptographic keys in the service's cryptosystem (e.g., lifecycle management from key generation to revocation and replacement, public key infrastructure, cryptographic protocol design and algorithms used, access controls in place for secure key generation, and exchange and storage including segregation of keys used for encrypted data or sessions). Upon request, provider shall inform the customer (tenant) of changes within the cryptosystem, especially if the customer (tenant) data is used as part of the service, and/or the customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of the control.
1	The organization's approach to managing information security and its implementation (control objectives, controls, policies, processes, and procedures for information security) shall be reviewed independently at planned intervals, at a minimum annually, or when significant changes to the security implementation occur.	Independent reviews and assessments shall be performed at least annually to ensure that the organization addresses nonconformities of established policies, standards, procedures, and compliance obligations.
0	Information systems shall be regularly reviewed for compliance with the organization's information security policies and standards.	Internal corporate or customer (tenant) user account credentials shall be restricted as per the following, ensuring appropriate identity, entitlement, and access management and in accordance with established policies and procedures:  • Identity trust verification and service-to-service application (API) and information processing interoperability (e.g., SSO and Federation)  • Account credential lifecycle management from instantiation through revocation  • Account credential and/or identity store minimization or re-use when feasible  • Adherence to industry acceptable and/or regulatory compliant authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules (e.g., strong/multi-factor, expireable, non-shared authentication secrets)
0	Test data shall be selected carefully, protected and controlled.	A consistent unified framework for business continuity planning and plan development shall be established, documented, and adopted to ensure all business continuity plans are consistent in addressing priorities for testing, maintenance, and information security requirements.  Requirements for business continuity plans include the following:  • Defined purpose and scope, aligned with relevant dependencies  • Accessible to and understood by those who will use them  • Owned by a named person(s) who is responsible for their review, update, and approval  • Defined lines of communication, roles, and responsibilities  • Detailed recovery procedures, manual work-around, and reference information  • Method for plan invocation
0	The information system implements multifactor authentication for local access to privileged accounts.	The information system implements multifactor authentication for local access to privileged accounts.
0	Information systems shall be regularly reviewed for compliance with the organization's information security policies and standards.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for the use of encryption protocols for protection of sensitive data in storage (e.g., file servers, databases, and end-user workstations), data in use (memory), and data in transmission (e.g., system interfaces, over public networks, and electronic messaging) as per applicable legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations.
0	Testing of security functionality shall be carried out during development.	Policies and procedures shall be established for the management of cryptographic keys in the service's cryptosystem (e.g., lifecycle management from key generation to revocation and replacement, public key infrastructure, cryptographic protocol design and algorithms used, access controls in place for secure key generation, and exchange and storage including segregation of keys used for encrypted data or sessions). Upon request, provider shall inform the customer (tenant) of changes within the cryptosystem, especially if the customer (tenant) data is used as part of the service, and/or the customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of the control.
0	When operating platforms are changed, business critical applications shall be reviewed and tested to ensure there is no adverse impact on organizational operations or security.	Requirements for non-disclosure or confidentiality agreements reflecting the organization's needs for the protection of data and operational details shall be identified, documented, and reviewed at planned intervals.
1	Deploy automated software update tools in order to ensure that the operating systems are running the most recent security updates provided by the software vendor.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting processes and technical measures implemented, for timely detection of vulnerabilities within organizationally-owned or managed applications, infrastructure network and system components (e.g., network vulnerability assessment, penetration testing) to ensure the efficiency of implemented security controls. A risk-based model for prioritizing remediation of identified vulnerabilities shall be used. Changes shall be managed through a change management process for all vendor-supplied patches, configuration changes, or changes to the organization's internally developed software. Upon request, the provider informs customer (tenant) of policies and procedures and identified weaknesses especially if customer (tenant) data is used as part the service and/or customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of control.
1	Compare all network device configuration against approved security configurations defined for each network device in use and alert when any deviations are discovered.	Network environments and virtual instances shall be designed and configured to restrict and monitor traffic between trusted and untrusted connections. These configurations shall be reviewed at least annually, and supported by a documented justification for use for all allowed services, protocols, ports, and by compensating controls.
0	A formal user access provisioning process shall be implemented to assign or revoke access rights for all user types to all systems and services.	All data shall be designated with stewardship, with assigned responsibilities defined, documented, and communicated.
0	All relevant legislative statutory, regulatory, contractual requirements and the organization's approach to meet these requirements shall be explicitly identified, documented and kept up to date for each information system and the organization.	The availability, quality, and adequate capacity and resources shall be planned, prepared, and measured to deliver the required system performance in accordance with legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations. Projections of future capacity requirements shall be made to mitigate the risk of system overload.
1	Review custom code prior to release to production or customers in order to identify any potential coding vulnerability (using either manual or automated processes) to include at least the following:  Code changes are reviewed by individuals other than the originating code author, and by individuals knowledgeable about code-review techniques and secure coding practices.  Code reviews ensure code is developed according to secure coding guidelines  Appropriate corrections are implemented prior to release.  Code-review results are reviewed and approved by management prior to release.(Continued on next page)PCI DSS Requirements	Data input and output integrity routines (i.e., reconciliation and edit checks) shall be implemented for application interfaces and databases to prevent manual or systematic processing errors, corruption of data, or misuse.
1	The information system:  a. Prevents further access to the system by initiating a session lock after [Assignment: organization-defined time period] of inactivity or upon receiving a request from a user; and  b. Retains the session lock until the user reestablishes access using established identification and authentication procedures.	BYOD and/or company-owned devices are configured to require an automatic lockout screen, and the requirement shall be enforced through technical controls.
0	Use either video cameras or access control mechanisms (or both) to monitor individual physical access to sensitive areas. Review collected data and correlate with other entries. Store for at least three months, unless otherwise restricted by law.	Information security policies and procedures shall be established and made readily available for review by all impacted personnel and external business relationships. Information security policies must be authorized by the organization's business leadership (or other accountable business role or function) and supported by a strategic business plan and an information security management program inclusive of defined information security roles and responsibilities for business leadership.
1	Develop usage policies for critical technologies and define proper use of these technologies.	External business partners shall adhere to the same policies and procedures for change management, release, and testing as internal developers within the organization (e.g., ITIL service management processes).
1	• What procedures or policies are in place to ensure that environmental issues do not cause an interruption to service?	To reduce the risks from environmental threats, hazards, and opportunities for unauthorized access, equipment shall be kept away from locations subject to high probability environmental risks and supplemented by redundant equipment located at a reasonable distance.
0	The organization conducts capacity planning so that necessary capacity for information processing, telecommunications, and environmental support exists during contingency operations.	A centralized, mobile device management solution shall be deployed to all mobile devices permitted to store, transmit, or process customer data.
1	When operating platforms are changed, business critical applications shall be reviewed and tested to ensure there is no adverse impact on organizational operations or security.	Providers shall inspect, account for, and work with their cloud supply-chain partners to correct data quality errors and associated risks. Providers shall design and implement controls to mitigate and contain data security risks through proper separation of duties, role-based access, and least-privilege access for all personnel within their supply chain.
0	The organization:  a. Develops, documents, and disseminates to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]:    1. An incident response policy that addresses purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment, coordination among organizational entities, and compliance; and    2. Procedures to facilitate the implementation of the incident response policy and associated incident response controls; and  b. Reviews and updates the current:    1. Incident response policy [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and    2. Incident response procedures [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	A security awareness training program shall be established for all contractors, third-party users, and employees of the organization and mandated when appropriate. All individuals with access to organizational data shall receive appropriate awareness training and regular updates in organizational procedures, processes, and policies relating to their professional function relative to the organization.
0	The organization:  (a)   Implements procedures for the use of maintenance personnel that lack appropriate security clearances or are not U.S. citizens, that include the following requirements:     (1)   Maintenance personnel who do not have needed access authorizations, clearances, or formal access approvals are escorted and supervised during the performance of maintenance and diagnostic activities on the information system by approved organizational personnel who are fully cleared, have appropriate access authorizations, and are technically qualified;    (2)   Prior to initiating maintenance or diagnostic activities by personnel who do not have needed access authorizations, clearances or formal access approvals, all volatile information storage components within the information system are sanitized and all nonvolatile storage media are removed or physically disconnected from the system and secured; and  (b)   Develops and implements alternate security safeguards in the event an information system component cannot be sanitized, removed, or disconnected from the system.	Risk assessment results shall include updates to security policies, procedures, standards, and controls to ensure that they remain relevant and effective.
0	Disable all workstation to workstation communication to limit an attacker’s ability to move laterally and compromise neighboring systems, through technologies such as Private VLANs or micro segmentation.	Disable all workstation to workstation communication to limit an attacker’s ability to move laterally and compromise neighboring systems, through technologies such as Private VLANs or micro segmentation.
0	o Does the provider have a formal process in place for detecting, identifying, analyzing and responding to incidents?	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for appropriate IT governance and service management to ensure appropriate planning, delivery, and support of the organization's IT capabilities supporting business functions, workforce, and/or customers based on industry acceptable standards (i.e., ITIL v4 and COBIT 5). Additionally, policies and procedures shall include defined roles and responsibilities supported by regular workforce training.
0	To provide management direction and support for information security in accordance with business requirements and relevant laws and regulations.	To provide management direction and support for information security in accordance with business requirements and relevant laws and regulations.
0	Ensure that the hardware asset inventory records the network address, hardware address, machine name, data asset owner, and department for each asset and whether the hardware asset has been approved to connect to the network.	Data and objects containing data shall be assigned a classification by the data owner based on data type, value, sensitivity, and criticality to the organization.
1	Install perimeter firewalls between all wireless networks and the cardholder data environment, and configure these firewalls to deny or, if traffic is necessary for business purposes, permit only authorized traffic between the wireless environment and the cardholder data environment.	Multi-tenant organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) applications, and infrastructure system and network components, shall be designed, developed, deployed, and configured such that provider and customer (tenant) user access is appropriately segmented from other tenant users, based on the following considerations:  • Established policies and procedures  • Isolation of business critical assets and/or sensitive user data, and sessions that mandate stronger internal controls and high levels of assurance  • Compliance with legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations
0	Networks shall be managed and controlled to protect information in systems and applications.	Production data shall not be replicated or used in non-production environments. Any use of customer data in non-production environments requires explicit, documented approval from all customers whose data is affected, and must comply with all legal and regulatory requirements for scrubbing of sensitive data elements.
0	Security roles and responsibilities of employees, contractors and third-party users shall be defined and documented in accordance with the organization's information security policy.	Points of contact for applicable regulation authorities, national and local law enforcement, and other legal jurisdictional authorities shall be maintained and regularly updated (e.g., change in impacted-scope and/or a change in any compliance obligation) to ensure direct compliance liaisons have been established and to be prepared for a forensic investigation requiring rapid engagement with law enforcement.
0	The organization: a. Conducts backups of user-level information contained in the information system [Assignment: organization-defined frequency consistent with recovery time and recovery point objectives]; b. Conducts backups of system-level information contained in the information system [Assignment: organization-defined frequency consistent with recovery time and recovery point objectives]; c. Conducts backups of information system documentation including security-related documentation [Assignment: organization-defined frequency consistent with recovery time and recovery point objectives]; and d. Protects the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of backup information at storage locations.	The BYOD policy shall define the device and eligibility requirements to allow for BYOD usage.
0	Cross-site request forgery (CSRF)	BYOD and/or company-owned devices are configured to require an automatic lockout screen, and the requirement shall be enforced through technical controls.
1	The organization:  a. Assigns a risk designation to all organizational positions;  b. Establishes screening criteria for individuals filling those positions; and  c. Reviews and updates position risk designations [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	Roles and responsibilities for performing employment termination or change in employment procedures shall be assigned, documented, and communicated.
1	Networks shall be managed and controlled in order to protect the organization from threats and to maintain security for the systems and applications using the network, including information in transit.	Network environments and virtual instances shall be designed and configured to restrict and monitor traffic between trusted and untrusted connections. These configurations shall be reviewed at least annually, and supported by a documented justification for use for all allowed services, protocols, ports, and by compensating controls.
1	Information systems shall be regularly reviewed for compliance with the organization's information security policies and standards.	Organizations shall follow a defined quality change control and testing process (e.g., ITIL Service Management) with established baselines, testing, and release standards that focus on system availability, confidentiality, and integrity of systems and services.
1	The information system automatically disables inactive accounts after [Assignment: organization-defined time period]. 	User access shall be authorized and revalidated for entitlement appropriateness, at planned intervals, by the organization's business leadership or other accountable business role or function supported by evidence to demonstrate the organization is adhering to the rule of least privilege based on job function. For identified access violations, remediation must follow established user access policies and procedures.
0	Users shall be made aware of their responsibilities for maintaining effective access controls and shall be required to follow good security practices in the selection and use of passwords and security of equipment.	Users shall be made aware of their responsibilities for maintaining effective access controls and shall be required to follow good security practices in the selection and use of passwords and security of equipment.
1	Place system components that store cardholder data (such as a database) in an internal network zone, segregated from the DMZ and other untrusted networks.	Network environments and virtual instances shall be designed and configured to restrict and monitor traffic between trusted and untrusted connections. These configurations shall be reviewed at least annually, and supported by a documented justification for use for all allowed services, protocols, ports, and by compensating controls.
0	Assign access based on individual personnel’s job classification and function.	Automated equipment identification shall be used as a method of connection authentication. Location-aware technologies may be used to validate connection authentication integrity based on known equipment location.
0	Deploy network-based Intrusion Prevention Systems (IPS) to block malicious network traffic at each of the organization’s network boundaries.	Assets must be classified in terms of business criticality, service-level expectations, and operational continuity requirements. A complete inventory of business-critical assets located at all sites and/or geographical locations and their usage over time shall be maintained and updated regularly, and assigned ownership by defined roles and responsibilities.
1	Compare all network device configuration against approved security configurations defined for each network device in use and alert when any deviations are discovered.	Network architecture diagrams shall clearly identify high-risk environments and data flows that may have legal compliance impacts. Technical measures shall be implemented and shall apply defense-in-depth techniques (e.g., deep packet analysis, traffic throttling, and black-holing) for detection and timely response to network-based attacks associated with anomalous ingress or egress traffic patterns (e.g., MAC spoofing and ARP poisoning attacks) and/or distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) attacks.
1	The allocation and use of privileges to information systems and services shall be restricted and controlled. Special attention shall be given to the allocation of privileged access rights, which allow users to override system controls.	Provisioning user access (e.g., employees, contractors, customers (tenants), business partners, and/or supplier relationships) to data and organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) applications, infrastructure systems, and network components shall be authorized by the organization's management prior to access being granted and appropriately restricted as per established policies and procedures. Upon request, provider shall inform customer (tenant) of this user access, especially if customer (tenant) data is used as part the service and/or customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of control.
0	Provide up-to-date PCI DSS and/or information security training at least annually to personnel with PCI DSS compliance responsibilities (as identified in A3.1.3).	The provider shall use an industry-recognized virtualization platform and standard virtualization formats (e.g., OVF) to help ensure interoperability, and shall have documented custom changes made to any hypervisor in use and all solution-specific virtualization hooks available for customer review.
0	Origination of event	An Information Security Management Program (ISMP) shall be developed, documented, approved, and implemented that includes administrative, technical, and physical safeguards to protect assets and data from loss, misuse, unauthorized access, disclosure, alteration, and destruction. The security program shall include, but not be limited to, the following areas insofar as they relate to the characteristics of the business:  • Risk management  • Security policy  • Organization of information security  • Asset management  • Human resources security  • Physical and environmental security  • Communications and operations management  • Access control  • Information systems acquisition, development, and maintenance
1	Compare all network device configuration against approved security configurations defined for each network device in use and alert when any deviations are discovered.	Changes to mobile device operating systems, patch levels, and/or applications shall be managed through the company's change management processes.
0	The allocation and use of privileges to information systems and services shall be restricted and controlled. Special attention shall be given to the allocation of privileged access rights, which allow users to override system controls.	Points of contact for applicable regulation authorities, national and local law enforcement, and other legal jurisdictional authorities shall be maintained and regularly updated (e.g., change in impacted-scope and/or a change in any compliance obligation) to ensure direct compliance liaisons have been established and to be prepared for a forensic investigation requiring rapid engagement with law enforcement.
1	Restrict access to privileged user IDs to least privileges necessary to perform job responsibilities.	Access to, and use of, audit tools that interact with the organization's information systems shall be appropriately segregated and access restricted to prevent inappropriate disclosure and tampering of log data.
0	Establish an access control system(s) for systems components that restricts access based on a user’s need to know, and is set to “deny all” unless specifically allowed.	A formal disciplinary or sanction policy shall be established for employees who have violated security policies and procedures. Employees shall be made aware of what action might be taken in the event of a violation, and disciplinary measures must be stated in the policies and procedures.
1	Secure all individual non-console administrative access and all remote access to the CDE using multi-factor authentication.	External business partners shall adhere to the same policies and procedures for change management, release, and testing as internal developers within the organization (e.g., ITIL service management processes).
1	A formal user access provisioning process shall be implemented to assign or revoke access rights for all user types to all systems and services.	Timely de-provisioning (revocation or modification) of user access to data and organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) applications, infrastructure systems, and network components, shall be implemented as per established policies and procedures and based on user's change in status (e.g., termination of employment or other business relationship, job change, or transfer). Upon request, provider shall inform customer (tenant) of these changes, especially if customer (tenant) data is used as part the service and/or customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of control.
0	The organization employs the principle of least privilege, allowing only authorized accesses for users (or processes acting on behalf of users) which are necessary to accomplish assigned tasks in accordance with organizational missions and business functions.	The availability, quality, and adequate capacity and resources shall be planned, prepared, and measured to deliver the required system performance in accordance with legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations. Projections of future capacity requirements shall be made to mitigate the risk of system overload.
0	All relevant legislative statutory, regulatory, contractual requirements and the organization's approach to meet these requirements shall be explicitly identified, documented and kept up to date for each information system and the organization.	Policies and procedures shall be established to require that unattended workspaces do not have openly visible (e.g., on a desktop) sensitive documents and user computing sessions are disabled after an established period of inactivity.
1	The organization:  a. Develops, documents, and disseminates to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]:    1. A contingency planning policy that addresses purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment, coordination among organizational entities, and compliance; and    2. Procedures to facilitate the implementation of the contingency planning policy and associated contingency planning controls; and  b. Reviews and updates the current:    1. Contingency planning policy [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and    2. Contingency planning procedures [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	Information security policies and procedures shall be established and made readily available for review by all impacted personnel and external business relationships. Information security policies must be authorized by the organization's business leadership (or other accountable business role or function) and supported by a strategic business plan and an information security management program inclusive of defined information security roles and responsibilities for business leadership.
0	The organization identifies potential accessibility problems to the alternate processing site in the event of an area-wide disruption or disaster and outlines explicit mitigation actions.	Secured and encrypted communication channels shall be used when migrating physical servers, applications, or data to virtualized servers and, where possible, shall use a network segregated from production-level networks for such migrations.
1	Render PAN unreadable anywhere it is stored (including on portable digital media, backup media, and in logs) by using any of the following approaches:  One-way hashes based on strong cryptography, (hash must be of the entire PAN)  Truncation (hashing cannot be used to replace the truncated segment of PAN)  Index tokens and pads (pads must be securely stored)  Strong cryptography with associated key-management processes and procedures.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for the use of encryption protocols for protection of sensitive data in storage (e.g., file servers, databases, and end-user workstations), data in use (memory), and data in transmission (e.g., system interfaces, over public networks, and electronic messaging) as per applicable legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations.
0	Develop usage policies for critical technologies and define proper use of these technologies.	The company shall have a documented policy prohibiting the installation of non-approved applications or approved applications not obtained through a pre-identified application store.
0	Define access needs for each role, including:  System components and data resources that each role needs to access for their job function  Level of privilege required (for example, user, administrator, etc.) for accessing resources.	Policies, procedures, and mutually-agreed upon provisions and/or terms shall be established to satisfy customer (tenant) requirements for service-to-service application (API) and information processing interoperability, and portability for application development and information exchange, usage, and integrity persistence.
1	Information security events shall be reported through appropriate management channels as quickly as possible.	The provider shall ensure the integrity of all virtual machine images at all times. Any changes made to virtual machine images must be logged and an alert raised regardless of their running state (e.g., dormant, off, or running). The results of a change or move of an image and the subsequent validation of the image's integrity must be immediately available to customers through electronic methods (e.g., portals or alerts).
1	Incorporate multi-factor authentication for all non-console access into the CDE for personnel with administrative access.	Policies and procedures shall be established and maintained in support of data security to include (confidentiality, integrity, and availability) across multiple system interfaces, jurisdictions, and business functions to prevent improper disclosure, alteration, or destruction.
1	When operating platforms are changed, business critical applications shall be reviewed and tested to ensure there is no adverse impact on organizational operations or security.	Access to all hypervisor management functions or administrative consoles for systems hosting virtualized systems shall be restricted to personnel based upon the principle of least privilege and supported through technical controls (e.g., two-factor authentication, audit trails, IP address filtering, firewalls, and TLS encapsulated communications to the administrative consoles).
1	Manage IDs used by third parties to access, support, or maintain system components via remote access as follows:  Enabled only during the time period needed and disabled when not in use.  Monitored when in use.	Access to, and use of, audit tools that interact with the organization's information systems shall be appropriately segregated and access restricted to prevent inappropriate disclosure and tampering of log data.
0	There shall be procedures in place to control the installation of software on operational systems.	Audit plans shall be developed and maintained to address business process disruptions. Auditing plans shall focus on reviewing the effectiveness of the implementation of security operations. All audit activities must be agreed upon prior to executing any audits.
1	Procedures for handling assets shall be developed and implemented in accordance with the information classification scheme adopted by the organization.	Policies and procedures shall be established for the management of cryptographic keys in the service's cryptosystem (e.g., lifecycle management from key generation to revocation and replacement, public key infrastructure, cryptographic protocol design and algorithms used, access controls in place for secure key generation, and exchange and storage including segregation of keys used for encrypted data or sessions). Upon request, provider shall inform the customer (tenant) of changes within the cryptosystem, especially if the customer (tenant) data is used as part of the service, and/or the customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of the control.
1	Users shall  be required to follow the organization's practices in the  use of secret authentication information.	Policies and procedures shall be established to require that unattended workspaces do not have openly visible (e.g., on a desktop) sensitive documents and user computing sessions are disabled after an established period of inactivity.
0	The organization:  a. Develops, documents, and disseminates to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]:    1. A media protection policy that addresses purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment, coordination among organizational entities, and compliance; and    2. Procedures to facilitate the implementation of the media protection policy and associated media protection controls; and  b. Reviews and updates the current:    1. Media protection policy [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and    2. Media protection procedures [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	Proper forensic procedures, including chain of custody, are required for the presentation of evidence to support potential legal action subject to the relevant jurisdiction after an information security incident. Upon notification, customers and/or other external business partners impacted by a security breach shall be given the opportunity to participate as is legally permissible in the forensic investigation.
0	Limit access to scripting tools (such as Microsoft PowerShell and Python) to only administrative or development users with the need to access those capabilities.	Limit access to scripting tools (such as Microsoft PowerShell and Python) to only administrative or development users with the need to access those capabilities.
0	The information system backs up audit records [Assignment: organization-defined frequency] onto a physically different system or system component than the system or component being audited.	The information system backs up audit records [Assignment: organization-defined frequency] onto a physically different system or system component than the system or component being audited.
0	Use Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) logging on all DHCP servers or IP address management tools to update the organization’s hardware asset inventory.	Ingress and egress to secure areas shall be constrained and monitored by physical access control mechanisms to ensure that only authorized personnel are allowed access.
1	Access points such as delivery and loading areas and other points where unauthorized persons may enter the premises shall be controlled and, if possible, isolated from information processing facilities to avoid unauthorized access.	Ingress and egress points such as service areas and other points where unauthorized personnel may enter the premises shall be monitored, controlled and, if possible, isolated from data storage and processing facilities to prevent unauthorized data corruption, compromise, and loss.
1	A policy on the use of cryptographic controls for protection of information shall be developed and implemented.	Platform and data-appropriate encryption (e.g., AES-256) in open/validated formats and standard algorithms shall be required. Keys shall not be stored in the cloud (i.e., at the cloud provider in question), but maintained by the cloud consumer or trusted key management provider. Key management and key usage shall be separated duties.
0	The information system uniquely identifies and authenticates organizational users (or processes acting on behalf of organizational users).	Risks shall be mitigated to an acceptable level. Acceptance levels based on risk criteria shall be established and documented in accordance with reasonable resolution time frames and stakeholder approval.
1	Never send unprotected PANs by end- user messaging technologies (for example, e- mail, instant messaging, SMS, chat, etc.).	Prior to granting customers access to data, assets, and information systems, identified security, contractual, and regulatory requirements for customer access shall be addressed.
1	The information system, for password-based authentication:  (a)   Enforces minimum password complexity of [Assignment: organization-defined requirements for case sensitivity, number of characters, mix of upper-case letters, lower-case letters, numbers, and special characters, including minimum requirements for each type];  (b)   Enforces at least the following number of changed characters when new passwords are created: [Assignment: organization-defined number];  (c)   Stores and transmits only encrypted representations of passwords;  (d)   Enforces password minimum and maximum lifetime restrictions of [Assignment: organization- defined numbers for lifetime minimum, lifetime maximum];  (e)   Prohibits password reuse for [Assignment: organization-defined number] generations; and  (f) Allows the use of a temporary password for system logons with an immediate change to a permanent password.	Password policies, applicable to mobile devices, shall be documented and enforced through technical controls on all company devices or devices approved for BYOD usage, and shall prohibit the changing of password/PIN lengths and authentication requirements.
0	The organization:  a. Develops, documents, and disseminates to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]:    1. An identification and authentication policy that addresses purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment, coordination among organizational entities, and compliance; and    2. Procedures to facilitate the implementation of the identification and authentication policy and associated identification and authentication controls; and  b. Reviews and updates the current:    1. Identification and authentication policy [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and    2. Identification and authentication procedures [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	Providers shall review the risk management and governance processes of their partners so that practices are consistent and aligned to account for risks inherited from other members of that partner's cloud supply chain.
0	Requirements for ensuring authenticity and protecting message integrity in applications shall be identified and controls implemented.	Requirements for ensuring authenticity and protecting message integrity in applications shall be identified and controls implemented.
0	The information system terminates the network connection associated with a communications session at the end of the session or after [Assignment: organization-defined time period] of inactivity. Supplemental Guidance:  This control applies to both internal and external networks. Terminating network connections associated with communications sessions include, for example, de-allocating associated TCP/IP address/port pairs at the operating system level, or de-allocating networking assignments at the application level if multiple application sessions are using a single, operating system-level network connection. Time periods of inactivity may be established by organizations and include, for example, time periods by type of network access or for specific network accesses. Control Enhancements:  None.	The provider shall use open and published APIs to ensure support for interoperability between components and to facilitate migrating applications.
0	Procedures for the handling and storage of information shall be established to protect this information from unauthorized disclosure or misuse.	Procedures for the handling and storage of information shall be established to protect this information from unauthorized disclosure or misuse.
1	Deliver training to address the skills gap identified to positively impact workforce members’ security behavior.	The provider shall have a documented mobile device policy that includes a documented definition for mobile devices and the acceptable usage and requirements for all mobile devices. The provider shall post and communicate the policy and requirements through the company's security awareness and training program.
0	Enable processes to provide for timely forensic investigation in the event of a compromise to any hosted merchant or service provider.	A consistent unified framework for business continuity planning and plan development shall be established, documented, and adopted to ensure all business continuity plans are consistent in addressing priorities for testing, maintenance, and information security requirements.  Requirements for business continuity plans include the following:  • Defined purpose and scope, aligned with relevant dependencies  • Accessible to and understood by those who will use them  • Owned by a named person(s) who is responsible for their review, update, and approval  • Defined lines of communication, roles, and responsibilities  • Detailed recovery procedures, manual work-around, and reference information  • Method for plan invocation
0	The organization:  a. Establishes a process for maintenance personnel authorization and maintains a list of authorized maintenance organizations or personnel;  b. Ensures that non-escorted personnel performing maintenance on the information system have required access authorizations; and  c. Designates organizational personnel with required access authorizations and technical competence to supervise the maintenance activities of personnel who do not possess the required access authorizations.	Implementers shall ensure that the security vulnerability assessment tools or services accommodate the virtualization technologies used (e.g., virtualization aware).
1	The organization: a. Implements an incident handling capability for security incidents that includes preparation, detection and analysis, containment, eradication, and recovery; b. Coordinates incident handling activities with contingency planning activities; and c. Incorporates lessons learned from ongoing incident handling activities into incident response procedures, training, and testing/exercises, and implements the resulting changes accordingly.	Proper forensic procedures, including chain of custody, are required for the presentation of evidence to support potential legal action subject to the relevant jurisdiction after an information security incident. Upon notification, customers and/or other external business partners impacted by a security breach shall be given the opportunity to participate as is legally permissible in the forensic investigation.
0	Configure system security parameters to prevent misuse.	A formal disciplinary or sanction policy shall be established for employees who have violated security policies and procedures. Employees shall be made aware of what action might be taken in the event of a violation, and disciplinary measures must be stated in the policies and procedures.
0	When operating platforms are changed, business critical applications shall be reviewed and tested to ensure there is no adverse impact on organizational operations or security.	Implementers shall ensure that the security vulnerability assessment tools or services accommodate the virtualization technologies used (e.g., virtualization aware).
0	Develop usage policies for critical technologies and define proper use of these technologies.	Policies and procedures shall be established to store and manage identity information about every person who accesses IT infrastructure and to determine their level of access. Policies shall also be developed to control access to network resources based on user identity.
1	Keep cardholder data storage to a minimum by implementing data retention and disposal policies, procedures and processes that include at least the following for all cardholder data (CHD) storage:  Limiting data storage amount and retention time to that which is required for legal, regulatory, and/or business requirements  Specific retention requirements for cardholder data  Processes for secure deletion of data when no longer needed  A quarterly process for identifying and securely deleting stored cardholder data that exceeds defined retention.PCI DSS Requirements	Organizations shall create and maintain a control framework which captures standards, regulatory, legal, and statutory requirements relevant for their business needs. The control framework shall be reviewed at least annually to ensure changes that could affect the business processes are reflected.
0	Requirements for confidentiality or non-disclosure agreements reflecting the organization's needs for the protection of information shall be identified and regularly reviewed.	All cloud-based services used by the company's mobile devices or BYOD shall be pre-approved for usage and the storage of company business data.
0	Document and confirm the accuracy of PCI DSS scope at least quarterly and upon significant changes to the in-scope environment. At a minimum, the quarterly scoping validation should include:  Identifying all in-scope networks and system components  Identifying all out-of-scope networks and justification for networks being out of scope, including descriptions of all segmentation controls implemented  Identifying all connected entities—e.g., third-party entities with access to the cardholder data environment (CDE)	A formal disciplinary or sanction policy shall be established for employees who have violated security policies and procedures. Employees shall be made aware of what action might be taken in the event of a violation, and disciplinary measures must be stated in the policies and procedures.
0	Current network diagram that identifies all connections between the cardholder data environment and other networks, including any wireless networks	Business-critical or customer (tenant) impacting (physical and virtual) application and system-system interface (API) designs and configurations, and infrastructure network and systems components, shall be designed, developed, and deployed in accordance with mutually agreed-upon service and capacity-level expectations, as well as IT governance and service management policies and procedures.
0	• Is the cloud provider interoperable with third party identity providers?	Audit plans shall be developed and maintained to address business process disruptions. Auditing plans shall focus on reviewing the effectiveness of the implementation of security operations. All audit activities must be agreed upon prior to executing any audits.
0	The information system:  a. Provides audit record generation capability for the auditable events defined in AU-2 a. at [Assignment: organization-defined information system components];  b. Allows [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles] to select which auditable events are to be audited by specific components of the information system; and  c.    Generates audit records for the events defined in AU-2 d. with the content defined in AU-3. 	The information system:  a. Provides audit record generation capability for the auditable events defined in AU-2 a. at [Assignment: organization-defined information system components];  b. Allows [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles] to select which auditable events are to be audited by specific components of the information system; and  c.    Generates audit records for the events defined in AU-2 d. with the content defined in AU-3. 
1	• In the event of resource overload (processing, memory, storage, network)? o What information is given about the relative priority assigned to my request in the event of a failure in provisioning? o Is there a lead time on service levels and changes in requirements? 	Business-critical or customer (tenant) impacting (physical and virtual) application and system-system interface (API) designs and configurations, and infrastructure network and systems components, shall be designed, developed, and deployed in accordance with mutually agreed-upon service and capacity-level expectations, as well as IT governance and service management policies and procedures.
1	• Are all utilities (electricity, water, etc) capable of supporting your environment? o How often is this re-evaluated and tested? 	Protection measures shall be put into place to react to natural and man-made threats based upon a geographically-specific business impact assessment.
1	Appropriate contacts with special interest groups or other specialist security forums and professional associations shall be maintained.	Points of contact for applicable regulation authorities, national and local law enforcement, and other legal jurisdictional authorities shall be maintained and regularly updated (e.g., change in impacted-scope and/or a change in any compliance obligation) to ensure direct compliance liaisons have been established and to be prepared for a forensic investigation requiring rapid engagement with law enforcement.
0	Deliver training to address the skills gap identified to positively impact workforce members’ security behavior.	Policies and procedures shall be established to store and manage identity information about every person who accesses IT infrastructure and to determine their level of access. Policies shall also be developed to control access to network resources based on user identity.
0	Configure systems to issue a log entry and alert when an account is added to or removed from any group assigned administrative privileges.	The provider shall use open and published APIs to ensure support for interoperability between components and to facilitate migrating applications.
1	Ensure that security policies and operational procedures for protecting systems against malware are documented, in use, and known to all affected parties.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to restrict the installation of unauthorized software on organizationally-owned or managed user end-point devices (e.g., issued workstations, laptops, and mobile devices) and IT infrastructure network and systems components.
1	The organization:  a. Develops, documents, and disseminates to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]:    1. A system and information integrity policy that addresses purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment, coordination among organizational entities, and compliance; and    2. Procedures to facilitate the implementation of the system and information integrity policy and associated system and information integrity controls; and  b. Reviews and updates the current:    1. System and information integrity policy [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and    2.  System and information integrity procedures [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for appropriate IT governance and service management to ensure appropriate planning, delivery, and support of the organization's IT capabilities supporting business functions, workforce, and/or customers based on industry acceptable standards (i.e., ITIL v4 and COBIT 5). Additionally, policies and procedures shall include defined roles and responsibilities supported by regular workforce training.
0	The information system routes all remote accesses through [Assignment: organization-defined number] managed network access control points.	The information system routes all remote accesses through [Assignment: organization-defined number] managed network access control points.
0	Users shall only be provided with access to the network and network services that they have been specifically authorized to use.	User access shall be authorized and revalidated for entitlement appropriateness, at planned intervals, by the organization's business leadership or other accountable business role or function supported by evidence to demonstrate the organization is adhering to the rule of least privilege based on job function. For identified access violations, remediation must follow established user access policies and procedures.
0	Encrypt all sensitive information in transit.	The provider shall use an industry-recognized virtualization platform and standard virtualization formats (e.g., OVF) to help ensure interoperability, and shall have documented custom changes made to any hypervisor in use and all solution-specific virtualization hooks available for customer review.
1	Detection, prevention and recovery controls to protect against malware shall be implemented, combined with appropriate user awareness.	Each operating system shall be hardened to provide only necessary ports, protocols, and services to meet business needs and have in place supporting technical controls such as: antivirus, file integrity monitoring, and logging as part of their baseline operating build standard or template.
0	When operating platforms are changed, business critical applications shall be reviewed and tested to ensure there is no adverse impact on organizational operations or security.	Mechanisms shall be put in place to monitor and quantify the types, volumes, and costs of information security incidents.
1	The organization permits authorized individuals to use an external information system to access the information system or to process, store, or transmit organization-controlled information only when the organization:  (a)   Verifies the implementation of required security controls on the external system as specified in the organization’s information security policy and security plan; or  (b)   Retains approved information system connection or processing agreements with the organizational entity hosting the external information system.	The mobile device policy shall prohibit the circumvention of built-in security controls on mobile devices (e.g., jailbreaking or rooting) and shall enforce the prohibition through detective and preventative controls on the device or through a centralized device management system (e.g., mobile device management).
1	The organization establishes terms and conditions, consistent with any trust relationships established with other organizations owning, operating, and/or maintaining external information systems, allowing authorized individuals to:  a. Access the information system from external information systems; and  b. Process, store, or transmit organization-controlled information using external information systems.	Password policies, applicable to mobile devices, shall be documented and enforced through technical controls on all company devices or devices approved for BYOD usage, and shall prohibit the changing of password/PIN lengths and authentication requirements.
0	Review custom code prior to release to production or customers in order to identify any potential coding vulnerability (using either manual or automated processes) to include at least the following:  Code changes are reviewed by individuals other than the originating code author, and by individuals knowledgeable about code-review techniques and secure coding practices.  Code reviews ensure code is developed according to secure coding guidelines  Appropriate corrections are implemented prior to release.  Code-review results are reviewed and approved by management prior to release.(Continued on next page)PCI DSS Requirements	The BYOD policy shall clarify the systems and servers allowed for use or access on a BYOD-enabled device.
0	Managers shall regularly review the compliance of information processing and procedures within their area of responsibility with the appropriate security policies, standards and any other security requirements.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to restrict the installation of unauthorized software on organizationally-owned or managed user end-point devices (e.g., issued workstations, laptops, and mobile devices) and IT infrastructure network and systems components.
1	Ensure network engineers use a dedicated machine for all administrative tasks or tasks requiring elevated access. This machine shall be segmented from the organization’s primary network and not be allowed Internet access. This machine shall not be used for reading email, composing documents, or surfing the Internet.	Network environments and virtual instances shall be designed and configured to restrict and monitor traffic between trusted and untrusted connections. These configurations shall be reviewed at least annually, and supported by a documented justification for use for all allowed services, protocols, ports, and by compensating controls.
1	o Does the provider offer the customer (upon request) a forensic image of the virtual machine?	Proper forensic procedures, including chain of custody, are required for the presentation of evidence to support potential legal action subject to the relevant jurisdiction after an information security incident. Upon notification, customers and/or other external business partners impacted by a security breach shall be given the opportunity to participate as is legally permissible in the forensic investigation.
0	Principles for engineering secure systems shall be established, documented, maintained and applied to any information system implementation efforts.	Principles for engineering secure systems shall be established, documented, maintained and applied to any information system implementation efforts.
0	The organization:  a. Determines information security requirements for the information system or information system service in mission/business process planning;  b. Determines, documents, and allocates the resources required to protect the information system or information system service as part of its capital planning and investment control process; and  c. Establishes a discrete line item for information security in organizational programming and budgeting documentation.	The organization:  a. Determines information security requirements for the information system or information system service in mission/business process planning;  b. Determines, documents, and allocates the resources required to protect the information system or information system service as part of its capital planning and investment control process; and  c. Establishes a discrete line item for information security in organizational programming and budgeting documentation.
1	Physically secure all media.	To reduce the risks from environmental threats, hazards, and opportunities for unauthorized access, equipment shall be kept away from locations subject to high probability environmental risks and supplemented by redundant equipment located at a reasonable distance.
1	Information involved in electronic messaging shall be appropriately protected.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for the use of encryption protocols for protection of sensitive data in storage (e.g., file servers, databases, and end-user workstations), data in use (memory), and data in transmission (e.g., system interfaces, over public networks, and electronic messaging) as per applicable legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations.
1	The software inventory system should track the name, version, publisher, and install date for all software, including operating systems authorized by the organization.	Assets must be classified in terms of business criticality, service-level expectations, and operational continuity requirements. A complete inventory of business-critical assets located at all sites and/or geographical locations and their usage over time shall be maintained and updated regularly, and assigned ownership by defined roles and responsibilities.
1	Implement only one primary function per server to prevent functions that require different security levels from co-existing on the same server. (For example, web servers, database servers, and DNS should be implemented on separate servers.)	Baseline security requirements shall be established for developed or acquired, organizationally-owned or managed, physical or virtual, applications and infrastructure system and network components that comply with applicable legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations. Deviations from standard baseline configurations must be authorized following change management policies and procedures prior to deployment, provisioning, or use. Compliance with security baseline requirements must be reassessed at least annually unless an alternate frequency has been established and authorized based on business needs.
0	Principles for engineering secure systems shall be established, documented, maintained and applied to any information system implementation efforts.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for appropriate IT governance and service management to ensure appropriate planning, delivery, and support of the organization's IT capabilities supporting business functions, workforce, and/or customers based on industry acceptable standards (i.e., ITIL v4 and COBIT 5). Additionally, policies and procedures shall include defined roles and responsibilities supported by regular workforce training.
0	Deploy network-based Intrusion Prevention Systems (IPS) to block malicious network traffic at each of the organization’s network boundaries.	The company shall have a documented application validation process to test for mobile device, operating system, and application compatibility issues.
0	• Are credentials provisioned and de-provisioned simultaneously throughout the cloud system, or are there any risks in de-provisioning them across multiple geographically distributed locations?	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes implemented, for maintaining a safe and secure working environment in offices, rooms, facilities, and secure areas storing sensitive information.
1	An appropriate set of procedures for information labelling shall be developed and implemented in accordance with the information classification scheme adopted by the organization.	Risk assessments associated with data governance requirements shall be conducted at planned intervals and shall consider the following:  • Awareness of where sensitive data is stored and transmitted across applications, databases, servers, and network infrastructure  • Compliance with defined retention periods and end-of-life disposal requirements  • Data classification and protection from unauthorized use, access, loss, destruction, and falsification
1	The availability of adequate capacity and resources shall be planned, prepared, and managed to deliver the required system performance. Projections of future capacity requirements shall be made to mitigate the risk of system overload.	The availability, quality, and adequate capacity and resources shall be planned, prepared, and measured to deliver the required system performance in accordance with legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations. Projections of future capacity requirements shall be made to mitigate the risk of system overload.
0	Implement incident response procedures in the event unauthorized wireless access points are detected.	Audit plans shall be developed and maintained to address business process disruptions. Auditing plans shall focus on reviewing the effectiveness of the implementation of security operations. All audit activities must be agreed upon prior to executing any audits.
0	All relevant legislative statutory, regulatory, contractual requirements and the organization's approach to meet these requirements shall be explicitly identified, documented and kept up to date for each information system and the organization.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting processes and technical measures implemented, for timely detection of vulnerabilities within organizationally-owned or managed applications, infrastructure network and system components (e.g., network vulnerability assessment, penetration testing) to ensure the efficiency of implemented security controls. A risk-based model for prioritizing remediation of identified vulnerabilities shall be used. Changes shall be managed through a change management process for all vendor-supplied patches, configuration changes, or changes to the organization's internally developed software. Upon request, the provider informs customer (tenant) of policies and procedures and identified weaknesses especially if customer (tenant) data is used as part the service and/or customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of control.
0	To present to data subjects, where appropriate and feasible, the choice not to allow the processing of their PII, to refuse or withdraw consent or to oppose a specific type of processing, and to explain to data subjects the implications of granting or refusing consent.	To present to data subjects, where appropriate and feasible, the choice not to allow the processing of their PII, to refuse or withdraw consent or to oppose a specific type of processing, and to explain to data subjects the implications of granting or refusing consent.
1	Use appropriate facility entry controls to limit and monitor physical access to systems in the cardholder data environment.	Ingress and egress to secure areas shall be constrained and monitored by physical access control mechanisms to ensure that only authorized personnel are allowed access.
0	Visitors are identified and given a badge or other identification that expires and that visibly distinguishes the visitors from onsite personnel.	Providers shall inspect, account for, and work with their cloud supply-chain partners to correct data quality errors and associated risks. Providers shall design and implement controls to mitigate and contain data security risks through proper separation of duties, role-based access, and least-privilege access for all personnel within their supply chain.
1	• Does the provider ensure virtual images are hardened by default?	Baseline security requirements shall be established for developed or acquired, organizationally-owned or managed, physical or virtual, applications and infrastructure system and network components that comply with applicable legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations. Deviations from standard baseline configurations must be authorized following change management policies and procedures prior to deployment, provisioning, or use. Compliance with security baseline requirements must be reassessed at least annually unless an alternate frequency has been established and authorized based on business needs.
0	The organization employs only FICAM-approved information system components in [Assignment: organization-defined information systems] to accept third-party credentials.	The organization employs only FICAM-approved information system components in [Assignment: organization-defined information systems] to accept third-party credentials.
1	Restrict access to privileged user IDs to least privileges necessary to perform job responsibilities.	Provisioning user access (e.g., employees, contractors, customers (tenants), business partners, and/or supplier relationships) to data and organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) applications, infrastructure systems, and network components shall be authorized by the organization's management prior to access being granted and appropriately restricted as per established policies and procedures. Upon request, provider shall inform customer (tenant) of this user access, especially if customer (tenant) data is used as part the service and/or customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of control.
1	The organization conducts capacity planning so that necessary capacity for information processing, telecommunications, and environmental support exists during contingency operations.	There shall be a defined and documented method for determining the impact of any disruption to the organization (cloud provider, cloud consumer) that must incorporate the following:  • Identify critical products and services  • Identify all dependencies, including processes, applications, business partners, and third party service providers  • Understand threats to critical products and services  • Determine impacts resulting from planned or unplanned disruptions and how these vary over time  • Establish the maximum tolerable period for disruption  • Establish priorities for recovery  • Establish recovery time objectives for resumption of critical products and services within their maximum tolerable period of disruption  • Estimate the resources required for resumption
1	Configure monitoring systems to record network packets passing through the boundary at each of the organization’s network boundaries.	Network architecture diagrams shall clearly identify high-risk environments and data flows that may have legal compliance impacts. Technical measures shall be implemented and shall apply defense-in-depth techniques (e.g., deep packet analysis, traffic throttling, and black-holing) for detection and timely response to network-based attacks associated with anomalous ingress or egress traffic patterns (e.g., MAC spoofing and ARP poisoning attacks) and/or distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) attacks.
0	The organization implements [Assignment: organization-defined host-based monitoring mechanisms] at [Assignment: organization-defined information system components].	Policies and procedures shall be established for the secure disposal of equipment (by asset type) used outside the organization's premises. This shall include a wiping solution or destruction process that renders recovery of information impossible. The erasure shall consist of a full overwrite of the drive to ensure that the erased drive is released to inventory for reuse and deployment, or securely stored until it can be destroyed.
0	• What forms of authentication are used for operations requiring high assurance? This may include login to management interfaces, key creation, access to multiple-user accounts, firewall configuration, remote access, etc. o Is two-factor authentication used to manage critical components within the infrastructure, such as firewalls, etc? 	Data and objects containing data shall be assigned a classification by the data owner based on data type, value, sensitivity, and criticality to the organization.
1	All information security responsibilities shall be defined and allocated.	All data shall be designated with stewardship, with assigned responsibilities defined, documented, and communicated.
1	If manual clear-text cryptographic key-management operations are used, these operations must be managed using split knowledge and dual control.	Policies and procedures shall be established for the management of cryptographic keys in the service's cryptosystem (e.g., lifecycle management from key generation to revocation and replacement, public key infrastructure, cryptographic protocol design and algorithms used, access controls in place for secure key generation, and exchange and storage including segregation of keys used for encrypted data or sessions). Upon request, provider shall inform the customer (tenant) of changes within the cryptosystem, especially if the customer (tenant) data is used as part of the service, and/or the customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of the control.
0	To ensure that information security is designed and implemented within the development lifecycle of information systems.	To ensure that information security is designed and implemented within the development lifecycle of information systems.
1	All relevant legislative statutory, regulatory, contractual requirements and the organization's approach to meet these requirements shall be explicitly identified, documented and kept up to date for each information system and the organization.	The provider shall use an industry-recognized virtualization platform and standard virtualization formats (e.g., OVF) to help ensure interoperability, and shall have documented custom changes made to any hypervisor in use and all solution-specific virtualization hooks available for customer review.
1	Deploy anti-virus software on all systems commonly affected by malicious software (particularly personal computers and servers).	Physical protection against damage from natural causes and disasters, as well as deliberate attacks, including fire, flood, atmospheric electrical discharge, solar induced geomagnetic storm, wind, earthquake, tsunami, explosion, nuclear accident, volcanic activity, biological hazard, civil unrest, mudslide, tectonic activity, and other forms of natural or man-made disaster shall be anticipated, designed, and have countermeasures applied.
1	The allocation of secret authentication information shall be controlled through a formal management process.	Internal corporate or customer (tenant) user account credentials shall be restricted as per the following, ensuring appropriate identity, entitlement, and access management and in accordance with established policies and procedures:  • Identity trust verification and service-to-service application (API) and information processing interoperability (e.g., SSO and Federation)  • Account credential lifecycle management from instantiation through revocation  • Account credential and/or identity store minimization or re-use when feasible  • Adherence to industry acceptable and/or regulatory compliant authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules (e.g., strong/multi-factor, expireable, non-shared authentication secrets)
0	Information security responsibilities and duties that remain  valid  after termination or change of employment shall be defined, communicated to the employee or contractor and enforced.	Ingress and egress points such as service areas and other points where unauthorized personnel may enter the premises shall be monitored, controlled and, if possible, isolated from data storage and processing facilities to prevent unauthorized data corruption, compromise, and loss.
0	• Will the cloud provider use other companies whose infrastructure is located outside that of the cloud provider?	A consistent unified framework for business continuity planning and plan development shall be established, documented, and adopted to ensure all business continuity plans are consistent in addressing priorities for testing, maintenance, and information security requirements.  Requirements for business continuity plans include the following:  • Defined purpose and scope, aligned with relevant dependencies  • Accessible to and understood by those who will use them  • Owned by a named person(s) who is responsible for their review, update, and approval  • Defined lines of communication, roles, and responsibilities  • Detailed recovery procedures, manual work-around, and reference information  • Method for plan invocation
0	Ensure that the organization’s security awareness program is updated frequently (at least annually) to address new technologies, threats, standards and business requirements.	Ensure that the organization’s security awareness program is updated frequently (at least annually) to address new technologies, threats, standards and business requirements.
0	The organization requires the developer of the information system, system component, or information system service to employ static code analysis tools to identify common flaws and document the results of the analysis.	The organization requires the developer of the information system, system component, or information system service to employ static code analysis tools to identify common flaws and document the results of the analysis.
0	The information system enforces access restrictions and supports auditing of the enforcement actions.	Baseline security requirements shall be established for developed or acquired, organizationally-owned or managed, physical or virtual, applications and infrastructure system and network components that comply with applicable legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations. Deviations from standard baseline configurations must be authorized following change management policies and procedures prior to deployment, provisioning, or use. Compliance with security baseline requirements must be reassessed at least annually unless an alternate frequency has been established and authorized based on business needs.
0	Asset owners shall review users' access rights at regular intervals.	Policies and procedures shall be implemented to ensure the consistent review of service agreements (e.g., SLAs) between providers and customers (tenants) across the relevant supply chain (upstream/downstream). Reviews shall be performed at least annually and identify any non-conformance to established agreements. The reviews should result in actions to address service-level conflicts or inconsistencies resulting from disparate supplier relationships.
1	Physically secure all media.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for defining and adhering to the retention period of any critical asset as per established policies and procedures, as well as applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance obligations. Backup and recovery measures shall be incorporated as part of business continuity planning and tested accordingly for effectiveness.
0	Additional requirement for service providers only: Maintain documentation of quarterly review process to include:  Documenting results of the reviews  Review and sign-off of results by personnel assigned responsibility for the PCI DSS compliance program	Access to, and use of, audit tools that interact with the organization's information systems shall be appropriately segregated and access restricted to prevent inappropriate disclosure and tampering of log data.
0	• Are any SLA provisions guaranteed by outsourcers lower than the SLAs you offer to your customers? If not, do you have supplier redundancy in place?	The availability, quality, and adequate capacity and resources shall be planned, prepared, and measured to deliver the required system performance in accordance with legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations. Projections of future capacity requirements shall be made to mitigate the risk of system overload.
0	Utilize centrally managed anti-malware software to continuously monitor and defend each of the organization’s workstations and servers.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to protect wireless network environments, including the following:  • Perimeter firewalls implemented and configured to restrict unauthorized traffic  • Security settings enabled with strong encryption for authentication and transmission, replacing vendor default settings (e.g., encryption keys, passwords, and SNMP community strings)  • User access to wireless network devices restricted to authorized personnel  • The capability to detect the presence of unauthorized (rogue) wireless network devices for a timely disconnect from the network
1	Records shall be protected from loss, destruction, falsification, unauthorized access and unauthorized release, in accordance with legislator^ regulatory, contractual and business requirements.	Higher levels of assurance are required for protection, retention, and lifecycle management of audit logs, adhering to applicable legal, statutory or regulatory compliance obligations and providing unique user access accountability to detect potentially suspicious network behaviors and/or file integrity anomalies, and to support forensic investigative capabilities in the event of a security breach.
0	Equipment shall be sited and protected to reduce the risks from environmental threats and hazards, and opportunities for unauthorized access.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to prevent the execution of malware on organizationally-owned or managed user end-point devices (i.e., issued workstations, laptops, and mobile devices) and IT infrastructure network and systems components.
1	When operating platforms are changed, business critical applications shall be reviewed and tested to ensure there is no adverse impact on organizational operations or security.	External business partners shall adhere to the same policies and procedures for change management, release, and testing as internal developers within the organization (e.g., ITIL service management processes).
1	The information system separates information flows logically or physically using [Assignment: organization-defined mechanisms and/or techniques] to accomplish [Assignment: organization- defined required separations by types of information].	Secured and encrypted communication channels shall be used when migrating physical servers, applications, or data to virtualized servers and, where possible, shall use a network segregated from production-level networks for such migrations.
0	The organization, upon termination of individual employment:  a. Disables information system access within [Assignment: organization-defined time period];  b. Terminates/revokes any authenticators/credentials associated with the individual;  c. Conducts exit interviews that include a discussion of [Assignment: organization-defined information security topics];  d. Retrieves all security-related organizational information system-related property;  e. Retains access to organizational information and information systems formerly controlled by terminated individual; and  f. Notifies [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles] within [Assignment: organization-defined time period].	Workforce personnel and external business relationships shall be informed of their responsibilities and, if required, shall consent and/or contractually agree to report all information security events in a timely manner. Information security events shall be reported through predefined communications channels in a timely manner adhering to applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance obligations.
0	• In the event of resource overload (processing, memory, storage, network)? o What information is given about the relative priority assigned to my request in the event of a failure in provisioning? o Is there a lead time on service levels and changes in requirements? 	Roles and responsibilities for performing employment termination or change in employment procedures shall be assigned, documented, and communicated.
0	Assign access based on individual personnel’s job classification and function.	Organizations shall create and maintain a control framework which captures standards, regulatory, legal, and statutory requirements relevant for their business needs. The control framework shall be reviewed at least annually to ensure changes that could affect the business processes are reflected.
1	Ensure that security policies and operational procedures for identification and authentication are documented, in use, and known to all affected parties.	Information security policies and procedures shall be established and made readily available for review by all impacted personnel and external business relationships. Information security policies must be authorized by the organization's business leadership (or other accountable business role or function) and supported by a strategic business plan and an information security management program inclusive of defined information security roles and responsibilities for business leadership.
0	Restrict access to privileged user IDs to least privileges necessary to perform job responsibilities.	Risks shall be mitigated to an acceptable level. Acceptance levels based on risk criteria shall be established and documented in accordance with reasonable resolution time frames and stakeholder approval.
0	All relevant legislative statutory, regulatory, contractual requirements and the organization's approach to meet these requirements shall be explicitly identified, documented and kept up to date for each information system and the organization.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes implemented, for maintaining a safe and secure working environment in offices, rooms, facilities, and secure areas storing sensitive information.
1	Manage all network devices using multi-factor authentication and encrypted sessions.	Policies and procedures shall be established to store and manage identity information about every person who accesses IT infrastructure and to determine their level of access. Policies shall also be developed to control access to network resources based on user identity.
1	Changes to systems within the development lifecycle shall be controlled by the use of formal change control procedures.	External business partners shall adhere to the same policies and procedures for change management, release, and testing as internal developers within the organization (e.g., ITIL service management processes).
1	The information security related requirements shall be included in the requirements for new information systems or enhancements to existing information systems.	Organizations shall follow a defined quality change control and testing process (e.g., ITIL Service Management) with established baselines, testing, and release standards that focus on system availability, confidentiality, and integrity of systems and services.
0	Establish an access control system(s) for systems components that restricts access based on a user’s need to know, and is set to “deny all” unless specifically allowed.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to manage business risks associated with permitting mobile device access to corporate resources and may require the implementation of higher assurance compensating controls and acceptable-use policies and procedures (e.g., mandated security training, stronger identity, entitlement and access controls, and device monitoring).
0	The organization employs automated mechanisms to compare the results of vulnerability scans over time to determine trends in information system vulnerabilities.	The organization employs automated mechanisms to compare the results of vulnerability scans over time to determine trends in information system vulnerabilities.
0	The organization shall establish, document, implement and maintain processes, procedures and controls to ensure the required level of continuity for information security during an adverse situation.	Data related to electronic commerce (ecommerce) that traverses public networks shall be appropriately classified and protected from fraudulent activity, unauthorized disclosure, or modification in such a manner to prevent contract dispute and compromise of data.
1	Establish an access control system(s) for systems components that restricts access based on a user’s need to know, and is set to “deny all” unless specifically allowed.	User access to diagnostic and configuration ports shall be restricted to authorized individuals and applications.
1	• When equipment is sent away for repair, is the data cleaned from it first? o How is this done? 	Ingress and egress points such as service areas and other points where unauthorized personnel may enter the premises shall be monitored, controlled and, if possible, isolated from data storage and processing facilities to prevent unauthorized data corruption, compromise, and loss.
0	All relevant legislative statutory, regulatory, contractual requirements and the organization's approach to meet these requirements shall be explicitly identified, documented and kept up to date for each information system and the organization.	The provider shall perform annual internal assessments of conformance to, and effectiveness of, its policies, procedures, and supporting measures and metrics.
1	The information system protects the [Selection (one or more): confidentiality; integrity] of [Assignment: organization-defined information at rest].	The mobile device policy shall require the use of encryption either for the entire device or for data identified as sensitive on all mobile devices, and shall be enforced through technology controls.
1	Privacy and protection of personally identifiable information shall be ensured as required in relevant legislation and regulation where applicable.	Policies and procedures shall be established and maintained in support of data security to include (confidentiality, integrity, and availability) across multiple system interfaces, jurisdictions, and business functions to prevent improper disclosure, alteration, or destruction.
1	• Will the cloud provider use other companies whose infrastructure is located outside that of the cloud provider?	Organizations shall create and maintain a control framework which captures standards, regulatory, legal, and statutory requirements relevant for their business needs. The control framework shall be reviewed at least annually to ensure changes that could affect the business processes are reflected.
1	Develop usage policies for critical technologies and define proper use of these technologies.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for appropriate IT governance and service management to ensure appropriate planning, delivery, and support of the organization's IT capabilities supporting business functions, workforce, and/or customers based on industry acceptable standards (i.e., ITIL v4 and COBIT 5). Additionally, policies and procedures shall include defined roles and responsibilities supported by regular workforce training.
0	Ensure that all system data is automatically backed up on a regular basis.	Multi-tenant organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) applications, and infrastructure system and network components, shall be designed, developed, deployed, and configured such that provider and customer (tenant) user access is appropriately segmented from other tenant users, based on the following considerations:  • Established policies and procedures  • Isolation of business critical assets and/or sensitive user data, and sessions that mandate stronger internal controls and high levels of assurance  • Compliance with legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations
0	All relevant legislative statutory, regulatory, contractual requirements and the organization's approach to meet these requirements shall be explicitly identified, documented and kept up to date for each information system and the organization.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for equipment maintenance ensuring continuity and availability of operations and support personnel.
0	Train workforce members on the importance of enabling and utilizing secure authentication.	Train workforce members on the importance of enabling and utilizing secure authentication.
1	Compare all network device configuration against approved security configurations defined for each network device in use and alert when any deviations are discovered.	The company shall have a documented application validation process to test for mobile device, operating system, and application compatibility issues.
0	Privacy and protection of personally identifiable information shall be ensured as required in relevant legislation and regulation where applicable.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to restrict the installation of unauthorized software on organizationally-owned or managed user end-point devices (e.g., issued workstations, laptops, and mobile devices) and IT infrastructure network and systems components.
0	The organization establishes terms and conditions, consistent with any trust relationships established with other organizations owning, operating, and/or maintaining external information systems, allowing authorized individuals to:  a. Access the information system from external information systems; and  b. Process, store, or transmit organization-controlled information using external information systems.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to triage security-related events and ensure timely and thorough incident management, as per established IT service management policies and procedures.
0	• Does the client credential system allow for the separation of roles and responsibilities and for multiple domains (or a single key for multiple domains, roles and responsibilities)?	The mobile device policy shall prohibit the circumvention of built-in security controls on mobile devices (e.g., jailbreaking or rooting) and shall enforce the prohibition through detective and preventative controls on the device or through a centralized device management system (e.g., mobile device management).
1	The information system:  a. Displays to users [Assignment: organization-defined system use notification message or banner] before granting access to the system that provides privacy and security notices consistent with applicable federal laws, Executive Orders, directives, policies, regulations, standards, and guidance and states that:    1. Users are accessing a U.S. Government information system;    2. Information system usage may be monitored, recorded, and subject to audit;    3. Unauthorized use of the information system is prohibited and subject to criminal and civil penalties; and    4. Use of the information system indicates consent to monitoring and recording;  b. Retains the notification message or banner on the screen until users acknowledge the usage conditions and take explicit actions to log on to or further access the information system; and   c. For publicly accessible systems:    1. Displays system use information [Assignment: organization-defined conditions], before granting further access;    2. Displays references, if any, to monitoring, recording, or auditing that are consistent with privacy accommodations for such systems that generally prohibit those activities; and    3. Includes a description of the authorized uses of the system.	The BYOD policy includes clarifying language for the expectation of privacy, requirements for litigation, e-discovery, and legal holds. The BYOD policy shall clearly state the expectations regarding the loss of non-company data in the case that a wipe of the device is required.
1	Managers shall regularly review the compliance of information processing and procedures within their area of responsibility with the appropriate security policies, standards and any other security requirements.	An inventory of all mobile devices used to store and access company data shall be kept and maintained. All changes to the status of these devices (i.e., operating system and patch levels, lost or decommissioned status, and to whom the device is assigned or approved for usage (BYOD)) will be included for each device in the inventory.
0	Do not use group, shared, or generic IDs, passwords, or other authentication methods as follows:  Generic user IDs are disabled or removed.  Shared user IDs do not exist for system administration and other critical functions.  Shared and generic user IDs are not used to administer any system components.PCI DSS Requirements	Managers are responsible for maintaining awareness of, and complying with, security policies, procedures, and standards that are relevant to their area of responsibility.
0	Ensure that security policies and operational procedures for managing vendor defaults and other security parameters are documented, in use, and known to all affected parties.	There shall be a defined and documented method for determining the impact of any disruption to the organization (cloud provider, cloud consumer) that must incorporate the following:  • Identify critical products and services  • Identify all dependencies, including processes, applications, business partners, and third party service providers  • Understand threats to critical products and services  • Determine impacts resulting from planned or unplanned disruptions and how these vary over time  • Establish the maximum tolerable period for disruption  • Establish priorities for recovery  • Establish recovery time objectives for resumption of critical products and services within their maximum tolerable period of disruption  • Estimate the resources required for resumption
1	Uninstall or disable any unauthorized browser or email client plugins or add-on applications.	Each operating system shall be hardened to provide only necessary ports, protocols, and services to meet business needs and have in place supporting technical controls such as: antivirus, file integrity monitoring, and logging as part of their baseline operating build standard or template.
1	An access control policy shall be established, documented and reviewed based on business and information security requirements.	Internal corporate or customer (tenant) user account credentials shall be restricted as per the following, ensuring appropriate identity, entitlement, and access management and in accordance with established policies and procedures:  • Identity trust verification and service-to-service application (API) and information processing interoperability (e.g., SSO and Federation)  • Account credential lifecycle management from instantiation through revocation  • Account credential and/or identity store minimization or re-use when feasible  • Adherence to industry acceptable and/or regulatory compliant authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules (e.g., strong/multi-factor, expireable, non-shared authentication secrets)
1	Agreements shall address the secure transfer of business information between the organization and external parties.	Supply chain agreements (e.g., SLAs) between providers and customers (tenants) shall incorporate at least the following mutually-agreed upon provisions and/or terms:  • Scope of business relationship and services offered (e.g., customer (tenant) data acquisition, exchange and usage, feature sets and functionality, personnel and infrastructure network and systems components for service delivery and support, roles and responsibilities of provider and customer (tenant) and any subcontracted or outsourced business relationships, physical geographical location of hosted services, and any known regulatory compliance considerations)  • Information security requirements, provider and customer (tenant) primary points of contact for the duration of the business relationship, and references to detailed supporting and relevant business processes and technical measures implemented to enable effectively governance, risk management, assurance and legal, statutory and regulatory compliance obligations by all impacted business relationships  • Notification and/or pre-authorization of any changes controlled by the provider with customer (tenant) impacts  • Timely notification of a security incident (or confirmed breach) to all customers (tenants) and other business relationships impacted (i.e., up- and down-stream impacted supply chain)  • Assessment and independent verification of compliance with agreement provisions and/or terms (e.g., industry-acceptable certification, attestation audit report, or equivalent forms of assurance) without posing an unacceptable business risk of exposure to the organization being assessed  • Expiration of the business relationship and treatment of customer (tenant) data impacted  • Customer (tenant) service-to-service application (API) and data interoperability and portability requirements for application development and information exchange, usage, and integrity persistence
0	The information system protects the availability of resources by allocating [Assignment: organization-defined resources] by [Selection (one or more); priority; quota; [Assignment: organization-defined security safeguards]].	The information system protects the availability of resources by allocating [Assignment: organization-defined resources] by [Selection (one or more); priority; quota; [Assignment: organization-defined security safeguards]].
0	The organization controls physical access to [Assignment: organization-defined information system distribution and transmission lines] within organizational facilities using [Assignment: organization-defined security safeguards].	A documented list of approved application stores has been defined as acceptable for mobile devices accessing or storing provider managed data.
0	Ensure that all system data is automatically backed up on a regular basis.	Implementers shall ensure that the security vulnerability assessment tools or services accommodate the virtualization technologies used (e.g., virtualization aware).
0	Conduct regular external and internal penetration tests to identify vulnerabilities and attack vectors that can be used to exploit enterprise systems successfully.	Third-party service providers shall demonstrate compliance with information security and confidentiality, access control, service definitions, and delivery level agreements included in third-party contracts. Third-party reports, records, and services shall undergo audit and review at least annually to govern and maintain compliance with the service delivery agreements.
1	List of company-approved products	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to restrict the installation of unauthorized software on organizationally-owned or managed user end-point devices (e.g., issued workstations, laptops, and mobile devices) and IT infrastructure network and systems components.
0	Formal exchange policies, procedures, and controls shall be in place to protect the exchange of information through the use of all types of communication mediums.	Policies and procedures shall be implemented to ensure the consistent review of service agreements (e.g., SLAs) between providers and customers (tenants) across the relevant supply chain (upstream/downstream). Reviews shall be performed at least annually and identify any non-conformance to established agreements. The reviews should result in actions to address service-level conflicts or inconsistencies resulting from disparate supplier relationships.
1	The organization:  a. Employs malicious code protection mechanisms at information system entry and exit points to detect and eradicate malicious code;  b. Updates malicious code protection mechanisms whenever new releases are available in accordance with organizational configuration management policy and procedures;  c. Configures malicious code protection mechanisms to:    1. Perform periodic scans of the information system [Assignment: organization-defined frequency] and real-time scans of files from external sources at [Selection (one or more); endpoint; network entry/exit points] as the files are downloaded, opened, or executed in accordance with organizational security policy; and    2. [Selection (one or more): block malicious code; quarantine malicious code; send alert to administrator; [Assignment: organization-defined action]] in response to malicious code detection; and  d. Addresses the receipt of false positives during malicious code detection and eradication and the resulting potential impact on the availability of the information system.	The mobile device policy shall require the BYOD user to perform backups of data, prohibit the usage of unapproved application stores, and require the use of anti-malware software (where supported).
1	Deploy network-based Intrusion Prevention Systems (IPS) to block malicious network traffic at each of the organization’s network boundaries.	Network architecture diagrams shall clearly identify high-risk environments and data flows that may have legal compliance impacts. Technical measures shall be implemented and shall apply defense-in-depth techniques (e.g., deep packet analysis, traffic throttling, and black-holing) for detection and timely response to network-based attacks associated with anomalous ingress or egress traffic patterns (e.g., MAC spoofing and ARP poisoning attacks) and/or distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) attacks.
1	• Does the vendor provide interoperable export formats for all data stored within the cloud?	Policies, procedures, and mutually-agreed upon provisions and/or terms shall be established to satisfy customer (tenant) requirements for service-to-service application (API) and information processing interoperability, and portability for application development and information exchange, usage, and integrity persistence.
0	• Is the SaaS access control fine grained and can it be customised to your organisations policy?	Data and objects containing data shall be assigned a classification by the data owner based on data type, value, sensitivity, and criticality to the organization.
1	Ensure that security policies and operational procedures for restricting access to cardholder data are documented, in use, and known to all affected parties.	Information security policies and procedures shall be established and made readily available for review by all impacted personnel and external business relationships. Information security policies must be authorized by the organization's business leadership (or other accountable business role or function) and supported by a strategic business plan and an information security management program inclusive of defined information security roles and responsibilities for business leadership.
0	Utilize an active discovery tool to identify devices connected to the organization’s network and update the hardware asset inventory.	Access to, and use of, audit tools that interact with the organization's information systems shall be appropriately segregated and access restricted to prevent inappropriate disclosure and tampering of log data.
0	The organization restricts privileged accounts on the information system to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles].	An Information Security Management Program (ISMP) shall be developed, documented, approved, and implemented that includes administrative, technical, and physical safeguards to protect assets and data from loss, misuse, unauthorized access, disclosure, alteration, and destruction. The security program shall include, but not be limited to, the following areas insofar as they relate to the characteristics of the business:  • Risk management  • Security policy  • Organization of information security  • Asset management  • Human resources security  • Physical and environmental security  • Communications and operations management  • Access control  • Information systems acquisition, development, and maintenance
1	Ensure that security policies and operational procedures for identification and authentication are documented, in use, and known to all affected parties.	User access policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for restricting user access as per defined segregation of duties to address business risks associated with a user-role conflict of interest.
1	Do not use group, shared, or generic IDs, passwords, or other authentication methods as follows:  Generic user IDs are disabled or removed.  Shared user IDs do not exist for system administration and other critical functions.  Shared and generic user IDs are not used to administer any system components.PCI DSS Requirements	Keys must have identifiable owners (binding keys to identities) and there shall be key management policies.
0	： To protect against loss of data.	： To protect against loss of data.
1	The implementation of changes, including patches, service packs, and other updates and modifications, shall be controlled by the use of formal change control procedures.	The company shall have a documented application validation process to test for mobile device, operating system, and application compatibility issues.
0	All employees of the organization and contractors and third-party users shall receive appropriate awareness training and regular updates in organizational policies and procedures, as relevant for their job function.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to ensure the development and/or acquisition of new data, physical or virtual applications, infrastructure network, and systems components, or any corporate, operations and/or data center facilities have been pre-authorized by the organization's business leadership or other accountable business role or function.
0	Organizations shall regularly monitor, review and audit supplier service delivery.	Physical security perimeters (e.g., fences, walls, barriers, guards, gates, electronic surveillance, physical authentication mechanisms, reception desks, and security patrols) shall be implemented to safeguard sensitive data and information systems.
1	The organization:  a. Develops, documents, and disseminates to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]:    1. A media protection policy that addresses purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment, coordination among organizational entities, and compliance; and    2. Procedures to facilitate the implementation of the media protection policy and associated media protection controls; and  b. Reviews and updates the current:    1. Media protection policy [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and    2. Media protection procedures [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	Policies and procedures shall be established for the labeling, handling, and security of data and objects which contain data. Mechanisms for label inheritance shall be implemented for objects that act as aggregate containers for data.
1	All relevant legislative statutory, regulatory, contractual requirements and the organization's approach to meet these requirements shall be explicitly identified, documented and kept up to date for each information system and the organization.	The provider shall use secure (e.g., non-clear text and authenticated) standardized network protocols for the import and export of data and to manage the service, and shall make available a document to consumers (tenants) detailing the relevant interoperability and portability standards that are involved.
0	Physical and logical access to diagnostic and configuration ports shall be controlled.	Multi-tenant organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) applications, and infrastructure system and network components, shall be designed, developed, deployed, and configured such that provider and customer (tenant) user access is appropriately segmented from other tenant users, based on the following considerations:  • Established policies and procedures  • Isolation of business critical assets and/or sensitive user data, and sessions that mandate stronger internal controls and high levels of assurance  • Compliance with legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations
1	The organization establishes terms and conditions, consistent with any trust relationships established with other organizations owning, operating, and/or maintaining external information systems, allowing authorized individuals to:  a. Access the information system from external information systems; and  b. Process, store, or transmit organization-controlled information using external information systems.	Changes to mobile device operating systems, patch levels, and/or applications shall be managed through the company's change management processes.
1	The organization:  a. Develops, documents, and disseminates to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]:    1. A system and information integrity policy that addresses purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment, coordination among organizational entities, and compliance; and    2. Procedures to facilitate the implementation of the system and information integrity policy and associated system and information integrity controls; and  b. Reviews and updates the current:    1. System and information integrity policy [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and    2.  System and information integrity procedures [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	Information security policies and procedures shall be established and made readily available for review by all impacted personnel and external business relationships. Information security policies must be authorized by the organization's business leadership (or other accountable business role or function) and supported by a strategic business plan and an information security management program inclusive of defined information security roles and responsibilities for business leadership.
0	The organization includes security awareness training on recognizing and reporting potential indicators of insider threat.	The provider shall perform annual internal assessments of conformance to, and effectiveness of, its policies, procedures, and supporting measures and metrics.
0	Additional requirement for service providers only: Executive management shall establish responsibility for the protection of cardholder data and a PCI DSS compliance program to include:  Overall accountability for maintaining PCI DSS compliance  Defining a charter for a PCI DSS compliance program and communication to executive management	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for defining allowances and conditions for permitting usage of organizationally-owned or managed user end-point devices (e.g., issued workstations, laptops, and mobile devices) and IT infrastructure network and systems components. Additionally, defining allowances and conditions to permit usage of personal mobile devices and associated applications with access to corporate resources (i.e., BYOD) shall be considered and incorporated as appropriate.
1	The organization:  (a)   Identifies [Assignment: organization-defined software programs authorized to execute on the information system];  (b)   Employs a deny-all, permit-by-exception policy to allow the execution of authorized software programs on the information system; and  (c)   Reviews and updates the list of authorized software programs [Assignment: organization- defined frequency].	Utility programs capable of potentially overriding system, object, network, virtual machine, and application controls shall be restricted.
1	The information system, for password-based authentication:  (a)   Enforces minimum password complexity of [Assignment: organization-defined requirements for case sensitivity, number of characters, mix of upper-case letters, lower-case letters, numbers, and special characters, including minimum requirements for each type];  (b)   Enforces at least the following number of changed characters when new passwords are created: [Assignment: organization-defined number];  (c)   Stores and transmits only encrypted representations of passwords;  (d)   Enforces password minimum and maximum lifetime restrictions of [Assignment: organization- defined numbers for lifetime minimum, lifetime maximum];  (e)   Prohibits password reuse for [Assignment: organization-defined number] generations; and  (f) Allows the use of a temporary password for system logons with an immediate change to a permanent password.	User access policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for ensuring appropriate identity, entitlement, and access management for all internal corporate and customer (tenant) users with access to data and organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) application interfaces and infrastructure network and systems components. These policies, procedures, processes, and measures must incorporate the following:  • Procedures, supporting roles, and responsibilities for provisioning and de-provisioning user account entitlements following the rule of least privilege based on job function (e.g., internal employee and contingent staff personnel changes, customer-controlled access, suppliers' business relationships, or other third-party business relationships)  • Business case considerations for higher levels of assurance and multi-factor authentication secrets (e.g., management interfaces, key generation, remote access, segregation of duties, emergency access, large-scale provisioning or geographically-distributed deployments, and personnel redundancy for critical systems)  • Access segmentation to sessions and data in multi-tenant architectures by any third party (e.g., provider and/or other customer (tenant))  • Identity trust verification and service-to-service application (API) and information processing interoperability (e.g., SSO and federation)  • Account credential lifecycle management from instantiation through revocation  • Account credential and/or identity store minimization or re-use when feasible  • Authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules for access to data and sessions (e.g., encryption and strong/multi-factor, expireable, non-shared authentication secrets)  • Permissions and supporting capabilities for customer (tenant) controls over authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules for access to data and sessions  • Adherence to applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance requirements
1	Place application firewalls in front of any critical servers to verify and validate the traffic going to the server. Any unauthorized traffic should be blocked and logged.	Applications and programming interfaces (APIs) shall be designed, developed, deployed, and tested in accordance with leading industry standards (e.g., OWASP for web applications) and adhere to applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance obligations.
0	Managers shall ensure that all security procedures within their area of responsibility are carried out correctly to achieve compliance with security policies and standards.	Mobile devices connecting to corporate networks, or storing and accessing company information, shall allow for remote software version/patch validation. All mobile devices shall have the latest available security-related patches installed upon general release by the device manufacturer or carrier and authorized IT personnel shall be able to perform these updates remotely.
1	The organization restricts the location of [Selection (one or more): information processing; information/data; information system services] to [Assignment: organization-defined locations] based on [Assignment: organization-defined requirements or conditions].	Proper forensic procedures, including chain of custody, are required for the presentation of evidence to support potential legal action subject to the relevant jurisdiction after an information security incident. Upon notification, customers and/or other external business partners impacted by a security breach shall be given the opportunity to participate as is legally permissible in the forensic investigation.
1	Information systems shall be regularly reviewed for compliance with the organization's information security policies and standards.	All mobile devices permitted for use through the company BYOD program or a company-assigned mobile device shall allow for remote wipe by the company's corporate IT or shall have all company-provided data wiped by the company's corporate IT.
0	• Are customer system images protected or encrypted?	Providers shall assure reasonable information security across their information supply chain by performing an annual review. The review shall include all partners/third party-providers upon which their information supply chain depends on.
0	The organization establishes terms and conditions, consistent with any trust relationships established with other organizations owning, operating, and/or maintaining external information systems, allowing authorized individuals to:  a. Access the information system from external information systems; and  b. Process, store, or transmit organization-controlled information using external information systems.	Production and non-production environments shall be separated to prevent unauthorized access or changes to information assets. Separation of the environments may include: stateful inspection firewalls, domain/realm authentication sources, and clear segregation of duties for personnel accessing these environments as part of their job duties.
1	When operating platforms are changed, business critical applications shall be reviewed and tested to ensure there is no adverse impact on organizational operations or security.	The provider shall use an industry-recognized virtualization platform and standard virtualization formats (e.g., OVF) to help ensure interoperability, and shall have documented custom changes made to any hypervisor in use and all solution-specific virtualization hooks available for customer review.
1	Requirements for confidentiality or non-disclosure agreements reflecting the organization's needs for the protection of information shall be identified and regularly reviewed.	Requirements for non-disclosure or confidentiality agreements reflecting the organization's needs for the protection of data and operational details shall be identified, documented, and reviewed at planned intervals.
1	The organization:  a. Establishes an alternate storage site including necessary agreements to permit the storage and retrieval of information system backup information; and  b. Ensures that the alternate storage site provides information security safeguards equivalent to that of the primary site.	Physical protection against damage from natural causes and disasters, as well as deliberate attacks, including fire, flood, atmospheric electrical discharge, solar induced geomagnetic storm, wind, earthquake, tsunami, explosion, nuclear accident, volcanic activity, biological hazard, civil unrest, mudslide, tectonic activity, and other forms of natural or man-made disaster shall be anticipated, designed, and have countermeasures applied.
0	Implement a methodology for the timely identification of attack patterns and undesirable behavior across systems—for example, using coordinated manual reviews and/or centrally managed or automated log- correlation tools—to include at least the following:  Identification of anomalies or suspicious activity as it occurs  Issuance of timely alerts upon detection of suspicious activity or anomaly to responsible personnel  Response to alerts in accordance with documented response procedures	Ingress and egress to secure areas shall be constrained and monitored by physical access control mechanisms to ensure that only authorized personnel are allowed access.
1	All relevant legislative statutory, regulatory, contractual requirements and the organization's approach to meet these requirements shall be explicitly identified, documented and kept up to date for each information system and the organization.	A documented list of approved application stores has been defined as acceptable for mobile devices accessing or storing provider managed data.
0	All relevant legislative statutory, regulatory, contractual requirements and the organization's approach to meet these requirements shall be explicitly identified, documented and kept up to date for each information system and the organization.	Access to the organization's own developed applications, program, or object source code, or any other form of intellectual property (IP), and use of proprietary software shall be appropriately restricted following the rule of least privilege based on job function as per established user access policies and procedures.
0	All information security responsibilities shall be clearly defined.	User access to diagnostic and configuration ports shall be restricted to authorized individuals and applications.
0	The organization:  a. Develops, documents, and disseminates to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]:    1. A physical and environmental protection policy that addresses purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment, coordination among organizational entities, and compliance; and    2. Procedures to facilitate the implementation of the physical and environmental protection policy and associated physical and environmental protection controls; and  b. Reviews and updates the current:    1. Physical and environmental protection policy [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and    2. Physical and environmental protection procedures [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	Authorization must be obtained prior to relocation or transfer of hardware, software, or data to an offsite premises.
0	A formal policy shall be in place, and appropriate security measures shall be adopted to protect against the risks of using mobile computing and communication devices.	Production and non-production environments shall be separated to prevent unauthorized access or changes to information assets. Separation of the environments may include: stateful inspection firewalls, domain/realm authentication sources, and clear segregation of duties for personnel accessing these environments as part of their job duties.
1	Information systems shall be regularly reviewed for compliance with the organization's information security policies and standards.	All structured and unstructured data shall be available to the customer and provided to them upon request in an industry-standard format (e.g., .doc, .xls, .pdf, logs, and flat files).
0	Networks shall be managed and controlled to protect information in systems and applications.	The provider shall use open and published APIs to ensure support for interoperability between components and to facilitate migrating applications.
0	To provide suitable training and awareness concerning PII protection for the personnel of the PII controller who will have access to PII.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for appropriate IT governance and service management to ensure appropriate planning, delivery, and support of the organization's IT capabilities supporting business functions, workforce, and/or customers based on industry acceptable standards (i.e., ITIL v4 and COBIT 5). Additionally, policies and procedures shall include defined roles and responsibilities supported by regular workforce training.
0	• What procedures or policies are in place to ensure that environmental issues do not cause an interruption to service?	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for appropriate IT governance and service management to ensure appropriate planning, delivery, and support of the organization's IT capabilities supporting business functions, workforce, and/or customers based on industry acceptable standards (i.e., ITIL v4 and COBIT 5). Additionally, policies and procedures shall include defined roles and responsibilities supported by regular workforce training.
0	Maintain a written agreement that includes an acknowledgement that the service providers are responsible for the security of cardholder data the service providers possess or otherwise store, process or transmit on behalf of the customer, or to the extent that they could impact the security of the customer’s cardholder data environment.	The provider shall have a documented mobile device policy that includes a documented definition for mobile devices and the acceptable usage and requirements for all mobile devices. The provider shall post and communicate the policy and requirements through the company's security awareness and training program.
1	Fully document and implement all key- management processes and procedures for cryptographic keys used for encryption of cardholder data, including the following:	Policies and procedures shall be established for the management of cryptographic keys in the service's cryptosystem (e.g., lifecycle management from key generation to revocation and replacement, public key infrastructure, cryptographic protocol design and algorithms used, access controls in place for secure key generation, and exchange and storage including segregation of keys used for encrypted data or sessions). Upon request, provider shall inform the customer (tenant) of changes within the cryptosystem, especially if the customer (tenant) data is used as part of the service, and/or the customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of the control.
0	The organization employs only FICAM-approved information system components in [Assignment: organization-defined information systems] to accept third-party credentials.	Secured and encrypted communication channels shall be used when migrating physical servers, applications, or data to virtualized servers and, where possible, shall use a network segregated from production-level networks for such migrations.
0	Management shall require employees, and where applicable, contractors and third-party users, to apply security in accordance with established policies and procedures of the organization.	Information security policies and procedures shall be established and made readily available for review by all impacted personnel and external business relationships. Information security policies must be authorized by the organization's business leadership (or other accountable business role or function) and supported by a strategic business plan and an information security management program inclusive of defined information security roles and responsibilities for business leadership.
0	The organization permits authorized individuals to use an external information system to access the information system or to process, store, or transmit organization-controlled information only when the organization:  (a)   Verifies the implementation of required security controls on the external system as specified in the organization’s information security policy and security plan; or  (b)   Retains approved information system connection or processing agreements with the organizational entity hosting the external information system.	Policies and procedures shall be established to store and manage identity information about every person who accesses IT infrastructure and to determine their level of access. Policies shall also be developed to control access to network resources based on user identity.
1	The organization approves, controls, and monitors information system maintenance tools.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for equipment maintenance ensuring continuity and availability of operations and support personnel.
0	When operating platforms are changed, business critical applications shall be reviewed and tested to ensure there is no adverse impact on organizational operations or security.	Proper forensic procedures, including chain of custody, are required for the presentation of evidence to support potential legal action subject to the relevant jurisdiction after an information security incident. Upon notification, customers and/or other external business partners impacted by a security breach shall be given the opportunity to participate as is legally permissible in the forensic investigation.
0	The allocation and use of privileged access rights shall be restricted and controlled.	Information security policies and procedures shall be established and made readily available for review by all impacted personnel and external business relationships. Information security policies must be authorized by the organization's business leadership (or other accountable business role or function) and supported by a strategic business plan and an information security management program inclusive of defined information security roles and responsibilities for business leadership.
1	Always change vendor-supplied defaults and remove or disable unnecessary default accounts before installing a system on the network.	External business partners shall adhere to the same policies and procedures for change management, release, and testing as internal developers within the organization (e.g., ITIL service management processes).
1	Restrict access to privileged user IDs to least privileges necessary to perform job responsibilities.	Access to the organization's own developed applications, program, or object source code, or any other form of intellectual property (IP), and use of proprietary software shall be appropriately restricted following the rule of least privilege based on job function as per established user access policies and procedures.
1	Retain audit trail history for at least one year, with a minimum of three months immediately available for analysis (for example, online, archived, or restorable from backup).	Higher levels of assurance are required for protection, retention, and lifecycle management of audit logs, adhering to applicable legal, statutory or regulatory compliance obligations and providing unique user access accountability to detect potentially suspicious network behaviors and/or file integrity anomalies, and to support forensic investigative capabilities in the event of a security breach.
0	Ensure that all system components and software are protected from known vulnerabilities by installing applicable vendor- supplied security patches. Install critical security patches within one month of release.	Platform and data-appropriate encryption (e.g., AES-256) in open/validated formats and standard algorithms shall be required. Keys shall not be stored in the cloud (i.e., at the cloud provider in question), but maintained by the cloud consumer or trusted key management provider. Key management and key usage shall be separated duties.
1	• Are procedures in place in the event of a key compromise? For example, key revocation lists.	Policies and procedures shall be established for the management of cryptographic keys in the service's cryptosystem (e.g., lifecycle management from key generation to revocation and replacement, public key infrastructure, cryptographic protocol design and algorithms used, access controls in place for secure key generation, and exchange and storage including segregation of keys used for encrypted data or sessions). Upon request, provider shall inform the customer (tenant) of changes within the cryptosystem, especially if the customer (tenant) data is used as part of the service, and/or the customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of the control.
1	The organization:  a. Maintains temperature and humidity levels within the facility where the information system resides at [Assignment: organization-defined acceptable levels]; and  b. Monitors temperature and humidity levels [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	Data center utilities services and environmental conditions (e.g., water, power, temperature and humidity controls, telecommunications, and internet connectivity) shall be secured, monitored, maintained, and tested for continual effectiveness at planned intervals to ensure protection from unauthorized interception or damage, and designed with automated fail-over or other redundancies in the event of planned or unplanned disruptions.
0	The organization centrally manages spam protection mechanisms.	Secured and encrypted communication channels shall be used when migrating physical servers, applications, or data to virtualized servers and, where possible, shall use a network segregated from production-level networks for such migrations.
0	Perform quarterly internal vulnerability scans. Address vulnerabilities and perform rescans to verify all “high risk” vulnerabilities are resolved in accordance with the entity’s vulnerability ranking (per Requirement 6.1). Scans must be performed by qualified personnel.	Policies and procedures shall be established for the labeling, handling, and security of data and objects which contain data. Mechanisms for label inheritance shall be implemented for objects that act as aggregate containers for data.
1	Ensure that all network traffic to or from the Internet passes through an authenticated application layer proxy that is configured to filter unauthorized connections.	Network environments and virtual instances shall be designed and configured to restrict and monitor traffic between trusted and untrusted connections. These configurations shall be reviewed at least annually, and supported by a documented justification for use for all allowed services, protocols, ports, and by compensating controls.
0	Configure system security parameters to prevent misuse.	Higher levels of assurance are required for protection, retention, and lifecycle management of audit logs, adhering to applicable legal, statutory or regulatory compliance obligations and providing unique user access accountability to detect potentially suspicious network behaviors and/or file integrity anomalies, and to support forensic investigative capabilities in the event of a security breach.
1	Rules for the acceptable use of information and of assets associated with information and information processing facilities shall be identified, documented and implemented.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for defining allowances and conditions for permitting usage of organizationally-owned or managed user end-point devices (e.g., issued workstations, laptops, and mobile devices) and IT infrastructure network and systems components. Additionally, defining allowances and conditions to permit usage of personal mobile devices and associated applications with access to corporate resources (i.e., BYOD) shall be considered and incorporated as appropriate.
0	Modifications to software packages shall be discouraged, limited to necessary changes and all changes shall be strictly controlled.	Policies and procedures shall be established for managing the risks associated with applying changes to:  • Business-critical or customer (tenant)-impacting (physical and virtual) applications and system-system interface (API) designs and configurations.  • Infrastructure network and systems components. Technical measures shall be implemented to provide assurance that all changes directly correspond to a registered change request, business-critical or customer (tenant), and/or authorization by, the customer (tenant) as per agreement (SLA) prior to deployment.
1	Maintain strict control over the internal or external distribution of any kind of media, including the following:	Physical protection against damage from natural causes and disasters, as well as deliberate attacks, including fire, flood, atmospheric electrical discharge, solar induced geomagnetic storm, wind, earthquake, tsunami, explosion, nuclear accident, volcanic activity, biological hazard, civil unrest, mudslide, tectonic activity, and other forms of natural or man-made disaster shall be anticipated, designed, and have countermeasures applied.
0	• How much can you scale up? Does the provider offer guarantees on maximum available resources within a minimum period?	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to restrict the installation of unauthorized software on organizationally-owned or managed user end-point devices (e.g., issued workstations, laptops, and mobile devices) and IT infrastructure network and systems components.
1	• What procedures or policies are in place to ensure that environmental issues do not cause an interruption to service?	Physical protection against damage from natural causes and disasters, as well as deliberate attacks, including fire, flood, atmospheric electrical discharge, solar induced geomagnetic storm, wind, earthquake, tsunami, explosion, nuclear accident, volcanic activity, biological hazard, civil unrest, mudslide, tectonic activity, and other forms of natural or man-made disaster shall be anticipated, designed, and have countermeasures applied.
0	Requirement for cryptographic key custodians to formally acknowledge that they understand and accept their key- custodian responsibilities.	Physical protection against damage from natural causes and disasters, as well as deliberate attacks, including fire, flood, atmospheric electrical discharge, solar induced geomagnetic storm, wind, earthquake, tsunami, explosion, nuclear accident, volcanic activity, biological hazard, civil unrest, mudslide, tectonic activity, and other forms of natural or man-made disaster shall be anticipated, designed, and have countermeasures applied.
1	Limit access to system components and cardholder data to only those individuals whose job requires such access.	Access to the organization's own developed applications, program, or object source code, or any other form of intellectual property (IP), and use of proprietary software shall be appropriately restricted following the rule of least privilege based on job function as per established user access policies and procedures.
0	Changes to the organization, business processes, information processing facilities and systems that affect information security shall be controlled.	Policies and procedures shall be established and maintained in support of data security to include (confidentiality, integrity, and availability) across multiple system interfaces, jurisdictions, and business functions to prevent improper disclosure, alteration, or destruction.
0	Respond to failures of any critical security controls in a timely manner.	Respond to failures of any critical security controls in a timely manner.
0	If manual clear-text cryptographic key-management operations are used, these operations must be managed using split knowledge and dual control.	An inventory of all mobile devices used to store and access company data shall be kept and maintained. All changes to the status of these devices (i.e., operating system and patch levels, lost or decommissioned status, and to whom the device is assigned or approved for usage (BYOD)) will be included for each device in the inventory.
0	Encrypt all non-console administrative access using strong cryptography.	Ingress and egress to secure areas shall be constrained and monitored by physical access control mechanisms to ensure that only authorized personnel are allowed access.
0	Do not allow an individual to submit a new password/passphrase that is the same as any of the last four passwords/passphrases he or she has used.	Access to all hypervisor management functions or administrative consoles for systems hosting virtualized systems shall be restricted to personnel based upon the principle of least privilege and supported through technical controls (e.g., two-factor authentication, audit trails, IP address filtering, firewalls, and TLS encapsulated communications to the administrative consoles).
0	Encrypt all sensitive information at rest using a tool that requires a secondary authentication mechanism not integrated into the operating system, in order to access the information.	Third-party service providers shall demonstrate compliance with information security and confidentiality, access control, service definitions, and delivery level agreements included in third-party contracts. Third-party reports, records, and services shall undergo audit and review at least annually to govern and maintain compliance with the service delivery agreements.
1	o Does the provider have a formal process in place for detecting, identifying, analyzing and responding to incidents?	Workforce personnel and external business relationships shall be informed of their responsibilities and, if required, shall consent and/or contractually agree to report all information security events in a timely manner. Information security events shall be reported through predefined communications channels in a timely manner adhering to applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance obligations.
0	Utilize centrally managed anti-malware software to continuously monitor and defend each of the organization’s workstations and servers.	BYOD and/or company-owned devices are configured to require an automatic lockout screen, and the requirement shall be enforced through technical controls.
0	To set up efficient internal complaint handling and redress procedures for use by data subjects.	To set up efficient internal complaint handling and redress procedures for use by data subjects.
0	To limit the use and disclosure of PII for specific, explicit and legitimate purposes and to fulfill the stated purpose(s) or to abide by applicable laws.	To limit the use and disclosure of PII for specific, explicit and legitimate purposes and to fulfill the stated purpose(s) or to abide by applicable laws.
0	To limit the use and disclosure of PII for specific, explicit and legitimate purposes and to fulfill the stated purpose(s) or to abide by applicable laws.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to restrict the installation of unauthorized software on organizationally-owned or managed user end-point devices (e.g., issued workstations, laptops, and mobile devices) and IT infrastructure network and systems components.
0	Utilize application whitelisting technology on all assets to ensure that only authorized software executes and all unauthorized software is blocked from executing on assets.	Supply chain agreements (e.g., SLAs) between providers and customers (tenants) shall incorporate at least the following mutually-agreed upon provisions and/or terms:  • Scope of business relationship and services offered (e.g., customer (tenant) data acquisition, exchange and usage, feature sets and functionality, personnel and infrastructure network and systems components for service delivery and support, roles and responsibilities of provider and customer (tenant) and any subcontracted or outsourced business relationships, physical geographical location of hosted services, and any known regulatory compliance considerations)  • Information security requirements, provider and customer (tenant) primary points of contact for the duration of the business relationship, and references to detailed supporting and relevant business processes and technical measures implemented to enable effectively governance, risk management, assurance and legal, statutory and regulatory compliance obligations by all impacted business relationships  • Notification and/or pre-authorization of any changes controlled by the provider with customer (tenant) impacts  • Timely notification of a security incident (or confirmed breach) to all customers (tenants) and other business relationships impacted (i.e., up- and down-stream impacted supply chain)  • Assessment and independent verification of compliance with agreement provisions and/or terms (e.g., industry-acceptable certification, attestation audit report, or equivalent forms of assurance) without posing an unacceptable business risk of exposure to the organization being assessed  • Expiration of the business relationship and treatment of customer (tenant) data impacted  • Customer (tenant) service-to-service application (API) and data interoperability and portability requirements for application development and information exchange, usage, and integrity persistence
0	• Are security controls in place for reading and writing those keys? For example, strong password policies, keys stored in a separate system, hardware security modules (HSM) for root certificate keys, smart card based authentication, direct shielded access to storage, short key lifetime, etc.	Production data shall not be replicated or used in non-production environments. Any use of customer data in non-production environments requires explicit, documented approval from all customers whose data is affected, and must comply with all legal and regulatory requirements for scrubbing of sensitive data elements.
0	Implement physical and/or logical controls to restrict access to publicly accessible network jacks.	Policies and procedures shall be implemented to ensure the consistent review of service agreements (e.g., SLAs) between providers and customers (tenants) across the relevant supply chain (upstream/downstream). Reviews shall be performed at least annually and identify any non-conformance to established agreements. The reviews should result in actions to address service-level conflicts or inconsistencies resulting from disparate supplier relationships.
0	Keep cardholder data storage to a minimum by implementing data retention and disposal policies, procedures and processes that include at least the following for all cardholder data (CHD) storage:  Limiting data storage amount and retention time to that which is required for legal, regulatory, and/or business requirements  Specific retention requirements for cardholder data  Processes for secure deletion of data when no longer needed  A quarterly process for identifying and securely deleting stored cardholder data that exceeds defined retention.PCI DSS Requirements	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to inventory, document, and maintain data flows for data that is resident (permanently or temporarily) within the service's geographically distributed (physical and virtual) applications and infrastructure network and systems components and/or shared with other third parties to ascertain any regulatory, statutory, or supply chain agreement (SLA) compliance impact, and to address any other business risks associated with the data. Upon request, provider shall inform customer (tenant) of compliance impact and risk, especially if customer data is used as part of the services.
1	Implement processes to test for the presence of wireless access points (802.11), and detect and identify all authorized and unauthorized wireless access points on a quarterly basis.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to protect wireless network environments, including the following:  • Perimeter firewalls implemented and configured to restrict unauthorized traffic  • Security settings enabled with strong encryption for authentication and transmission, replacing vendor default settings (e.g., encryption keys, passwords, and SNMP community strings)  • User access to wireless network devices restricted to authorized personnel  • The capability to detect the presence of unauthorized (rogue) wireless network devices for a timely disconnect from the network
0	The organization implements [Assignment: organization-defined procedures] to ensure that organizational personnel impacted by information spills can continue to carry out assigned tasks while contaminated systems are undergoing corrective actions.	Mechanisms shall be put in place to monitor and quantify the types, volumes, and costs of information security incidents.
0	Back-out procedures.	Back-out procedures.
0	The organization employs vulnerability scanning tools that include the capability to readily update the information system vulnerabilities to be scanned.	User access shall be authorized and revalidated for entitlement appropriateness, at planned intervals, by the organization's business leadership or other accountable business role or function supported by evidence to demonstrate the organization is adhering to the rule of least privilege based on job function. For identified access violations, remediation must follow established user access policies and procedures.
0	Configure monitoring systems to record network packets passing through the boundary at each of the organization’s network boundaries.	Policies and procedures shall be established and maintained in support of data security to include (confidentiality, integrity, and availability) across multiple system interfaces, jurisdictions, and business functions to prevent improper disclosure, alteration, or destruction.
1	Information security events shall be reported through appropriate management channels as quickly as possible.	Workforce personnel and external business relationships shall be informed of their responsibilities and, if required, shall consent and/or contractually agree to report all information security events in a timely manner. Information security events shall be reported through predefined communications channels in a timely manner adhering to applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance obligations.
0	All relevant legislative statutory, regulatory, contractual requirements and the organization's approach to meet these requirements shall be explicitly identified, documented and kept up to date for each information system and the organization.	Policies and procedures shall be established for the management of cryptographic keys in the service's cryptosystem (e.g., lifecycle management from key generation to revocation and replacement, public key infrastructure, cryptographic protocol design and algorithms used, access controls in place for secure key generation, and exchange and storage including segregation of keys used for encrypted data or sessions). Upon request, provider shall inform the customer (tenant) of changes within the cryptosystem, especially if the customer (tenant) data is used as part of the service, and/or the customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of the control.
0	The information system implements cryptographic mechanisms to prevent unauthorized disclosure and modification of [Assignment: organization-defined information] on [Assignment: organization-defined information system components].	Implementers shall ensure that the security vulnerability assessment tools or services accommodate the virtualization technologies used (e.g., virtualization aware).
0	The organization:  a. Develops, documents, and disseminates to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]:    1. A contingency planning policy that addresses purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment, coordination among organizational entities, and compliance; and    2. Procedures to facilitate the implementation of the contingency planning policy and associated contingency planning controls; and  b. Reviews and updates the current:    1. Contingency planning policy [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and    2. Contingency planning procedures [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	Supply chain agreements (e.g., SLAs) between providers and customers (tenants) shall incorporate at least the following mutually-agreed upon provisions and/or terms:  • Scope of business relationship and services offered (e.g., customer (tenant) data acquisition, exchange and usage, feature sets and functionality, personnel and infrastructure network and systems components for service delivery and support, roles and responsibilities of provider and customer (tenant) and any subcontracted or outsourced business relationships, physical geographical location of hosted services, and any known regulatory compliance considerations)  • Information security requirements, provider and customer (tenant) primary points of contact for the duration of the business relationship, and references to detailed supporting and relevant business processes and technical measures implemented to enable effectively governance, risk management, assurance and legal, statutory and regulatory compliance obligations by all impacted business relationships  • Notification and/or pre-authorization of any changes controlled by the provider with customer (tenant) impacts  • Timely notification of a security incident (or confirmed breach) to all customers (tenants) and other business relationships impacted (i.e., up- and down-stream impacted supply chain)  • Assessment and independent verification of compliance with agreement provisions and/or terms (e.g., industry-acceptable certification, attestation audit report, or equivalent forms of assurance) without posing an unacceptable business risk of exposure to the organization being assessed  • Expiration of the business relationship and treatment of customer (tenant) data impacted  • Customer (tenant) service-to-service application (API) and data interoperability and portability requirements for application development and information exchange, usage, and integrity persistence
0	Compare all network device configuration against approved security configurations defined for each network device in use and alert when any deviations are discovered.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to ensure the development and/or acquisition of new data, physical or virtual applications, infrastructure network, and systems components, or any corporate, operations and/or data center facilities have been pre-authorized by the organization's business leadership or other accountable business role or function.
1	Install perimeter firewalls between all wireless networks and the cardholder data environment, and configure these firewalls to deny or, if traffic is necessary for business purposes, permit only authorized traffic between the wireless environment and the cardholder data environment.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to protect wireless network environments, including the following:  • Perimeter firewalls implemented and configured to restrict unauthorized traffic  • Security settings enabled with strong encryption for authentication and transmission, replacing vendor default settings (e.g., encryption keys, passwords, and SNMP community strings)  • User access to wireless network devices restricted to authorized personnel  • The capability to detect the presence of unauthorized (rogue) wireless network devices for a timely disconnect from the network
0	The organization:  a. Establishes and makes readily available to individuals requiring access to the information system, the rules that describe their responsibilities and expected behavior with regard to information and information system usage;  b. Receives a signed acknowledgment from such individuals, indicating that they have read, understand, and agree to abide by the rules of behavior, before authorizing access to information and the information system;  c. Reviews and updates the rules of behavior [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and d. Requires individuals who have signed a previous version of the rules of behavior to read and resign when the rules of behavior are revised/updated.	Policies and procedures shall be established with supporting business processes and technical measures implemented for the secure disposal and complete removal of data from all storage media, ensuring data is not recoverable by any computer forensic means.
0	Document and confirm the accuracy of PCI DSS scope at least quarterly and upon significant changes to the in-scope environment. At a minimum, the quarterly scoping validation should include:  Identifying all in-scope networks and system components  Identifying all out-of-scope networks and justification for networks being out of scope, including descriptions of all segmentation controls implemented  Identifying all connected entities—e.g., third-party entities with access to the cardholder data environment (CDE)	Document and confirm the accuracy of PCI DSS scope at least quarterly and upon significant changes to the in-scope environment. At a minimum, the quarterly scoping validation should include:  Identifying all in-scope networks and system components  Identifying all out-of-scope networks and justification for networks being out of scope, including descriptions of all segmentation controls implemented  Identifying all connected entities—e.g., third-party entities with access to the cardholder data environment (CDE)
1	Ensure that there are written incident response plans that define roles of personnel as well as phases of incident handling/management.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to triage security-related events and ensure timely and thorough incident management, as per established IT service management policies and procedures.
0	The organization:  a. Reviews and analyzes information system audit records [Assignment: organization-defined frequency] for indications of [Assignment: organization-defined inappropriate or unusual activity]; and  b. Reports findings to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles].	Access to, and use of, audit tools that interact with the organization's information systems shall be appropriately segregated and access restricted to prevent inappropriate disclosure and tampering of log data.
0	The information system prevents the installation of [Assignment: organization-defined software and firmware components] without verification that the component has been digitally signed using a certificate that is recognized and approved by the organization.	The information system prevents the installation of [Assignment: organization-defined software and firmware components] without verification that the component has been digitally signed using a certificate that is recognized and approved by the organization.
1	• Is the virtual network infrastructure used by cloud providers (in PVLANs and VLAN tagging 802.1q architecture) secured to vendor and/or best practice specific standards (e.g., are MAC spoofing, ARP poisoning attacks, etc, prevented via a specific security configuration)?	Network environments and virtual instances shall be designed and configured to restrict and monitor traffic between trusted and untrusted connections. These configurations shall be reviewed at least annually, and supported by a documented justification for use for all allowed services, protocols, ports, and by compensating controls.
1	All relevant legislative statutory, regulatory, contractual requirements and the organization's approach to meet these requirements shall be explicitly identified, documented and kept up to date for each information system and the organization.	The company shall have a documented policy prohibiting the installation of non-approved applications or approved applications not obtained through a pre-identified application store.
0	To maintain the security of information transferred within an organization and with any external entity.	Data related to electronic commerce (ecommerce) that traverses public networks shall be appropriately classified and protected from fraudulent activity, unauthorized disclosure, or modification in such a manner to prevent contract dispute and compromise of data.
0	Leverage the Advanced Encryption Standard (AES) to encrypt wireless data in transit.	The mobile device policy shall require the use of encryption either for the entire device or for data identified as sensitive on all mobile devices, and shall be enforced through technology controls.
0	The organization:  a. Develops an incident response plan that:    1. Provides the organization with a roadmap for implementing its incident response capability;    2. Describes the structure and organization of the incident response capability;    3. Provides a high-level approach for how the incident response capability fits into the overall organization;    4. Meets the unique requirements of the organization, which relate to mission, size, structure, and functions;    5. Defines reportable incidents;    6. Provides metrics for measuring the incident response capability within the organization;    7. Defines the resources and management support needed to effectively maintain and mature an incident response capability; and    8. Is reviewed and approved by [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles];  b. Distributes copies of the incident response plan to [Assignment: organization-defined incident response personnel (identified by name and/or by role) and organizational elements];  c. Reviews the incident response plan [Assignment: organization-defined frequency];  d. Updates the incident response plan to address system/organizational changes or problems encountered during plan implementation, execution, or testing;   e. Communicates incident response plan changes to [Assignment: organization-defined incident response personnel (identified by name and/or by role) and organizational elements]; and f. Protects the incident response plan from unauthorized disclosure and modification.	Pursuant to local laws, regulations, ethics, and contractual constraints, all employment candidates, contractors, and third parties shall be subject to background verification proportional to the data classification to be accessed, the business requirements, and acceptable risk.
1	The organization:  a. Develops, documents, and disseminates to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]:    1. A security planning policy that addresses purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment, coordination among organizational entities, and compliance; and    2. Procedures to facilitate the implementation of the security planning policy and associated security planning controls; and  b. Reviews and updates the current:    1. Security planning policy [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and    2. Security planning procedures [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	Information security policies and procedures shall be established and made readily available for review by all impacted personnel and external business relationships. Information security policies must be authorized by the organization's business leadership (or other accountable business role or function) and supported by a strategic business plan and an information security management program inclusive of defined information security roles and responsibilities for business leadership.
1	Acceptable uses of the technology	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to restrict the installation of unauthorized software on organizationally-owned or managed user end-point devices (e.g., issued workstations, laptops, and mobile devices) and IT infrastructure network and systems components.
1	Subscribe to URL categorization services to ensure that they are up-to-date with the most recent website category definitions available. Uncategorized sites shall be blocked by default.	Network environments and virtual instances shall be designed and configured to restrict and monitor traffic between trusted and untrusted connections. These configurations shall be reviewed at least annually, and supported by a documented justification for use for all allowed services, protocols, ports, and by compensating controls.
0	The organization coordinates incident response testing with organizational elements responsible for related plans.	The provider shall perform annual internal assessments of conformance to, and effectiveness of, its policies, procedures, and supporting measures and metrics.
0	Build firewall and router configurations that restrict connections between untrusted networks and any system components in the cardholder data environment.	Platform and data-appropriate encryption (e.g., AES-256) in open/validated formats and standard algorithms shall be required. Keys shall not be stored in the cloud (i.e., at the cloud provider in question), but maintained by the cloud consumer or trusted key management provider. Key management and key usage shall be separated duties.
1	Visitors are authorized before entering, and escorted at all times within, areas where cardholder data is processed or maintained.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes implemented, for maintaining a safe and secure working environment in offices, rooms, facilities, and secure areas storing sensitive information.
1	All relevant legislative statutory, regulatory, contractual requirements and the organization's approach to meet these requirements shall be explicitly identified, documented and kept up to date for each information system and the organization.	All cloud-based services used by the company's mobile devices or BYOD shall be pre-approved for usage and the storage of company business data.
1	All relevant legislative statutory, regulatory, contractual requirements and the organization's approach to meet these requirements shall be explicitly identified, documented and kept up to date for each information system and the organization.	BYOD and/or company-owned devices are configured to require an automatic lockout screen, and the requirement shall be enforced through technical controls.
1	The organization:  (a)   Limits privileges to change information system components and system-related information within a production or operational environment; and  (b)   Reviews and reevaluates privileges [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	User access to diagnostic and configuration ports shall be restricted to authorized individuals and applications.
1	The use of resources shall be monitored, tuned and projections made of future capacity requirements to ensure the required system performance.	The availability, quality, and adequate capacity and resources shall be planned, prepared, and measured to deliver the required system performance in accordance with legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations. Projections of future capacity requirements shall be made to mitigate the risk of system overload.
1	Time data is protected.	A reliable and mutually agreed upon external time source shall be used to synchronize the system clocks of all relevant information processing systems to facilitate tracing and reconstitution of activity timelines.
0	• Do you only allow authorised maintenance or repair staff onto the site? o How do you check their identity? 	Platform and data-appropriate encryption (e.g., AES-256) in open/validated formats and standard algorithms shall be required. Keys shall not be stored in the cloud (i.e., at the cloud provider in question), but maintained by the cloud consumer or trusted key management provider. Key management and key usage shall be separated duties.
0	Monitor all traffic leaving the organization and detect any unauthorized use of encryption.	Data related to electronic commerce (ecommerce) that traverses public networks shall be appropriately classified and protected from fraudulent activity, unauthorized disclosure, or modification in such a manner to prevent contract dispute and compromise of data.
1	Retain audit trail history for at least one year, with a minimum of three months immediately available for analysis (for example, online, archived, or restorable from backup).	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to restrict the installation of unauthorized software on organizationally-owned or managed user end-point devices (e.g., issued workstations, laptops, and mobile devices) and IT infrastructure network and systems components.
0	Uninstall or disable any unauthorized browser or email client plugins or add-on applications.	The availability, quality, and adequate capacity and resources shall be planned, prepared, and measured to deliver the required system performance in accordance with legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations. Projections of future capacity requirements shall be made to mitigate the risk of system overload.
1	Agreements shall be established and implemented for the exchange of information and software between the organization and external parties.	Supply chain agreements (e.g., SLAs) between providers and customers (tenants) shall incorporate at least the following mutually-agreed upon provisions and/or terms:  • Scope of business relationship and services offered (e.g., customer (tenant) data acquisition, exchange and usage, feature sets and functionality, personnel and infrastructure network and systems components for service delivery and support, roles and responsibilities of provider and customer (tenant) and any subcontracted or outsourced business relationships, physical geographical location of hosted services, and any known regulatory compliance considerations)  • Information security requirements, provider and customer (tenant) primary points of contact for the duration of the business relationship, and references to detailed supporting and relevant business processes and technical measures implemented to enable effectively governance, risk management, assurance and legal, statutory and regulatory compliance obligations by all impacted business relationships  • Notification and/or pre-authorization of any changes controlled by the provider with customer (tenant) impacts  • Timely notification of a security incident (or confirmed breach) to all customers (tenants) and other business relationships impacted (i.e., up- and down-stream impacted supply chain)  • Assessment and independent verification of compliance with agreement provisions and/or terms (e.g., industry-acceptable certification, attestation audit report, or equivalent forms of assurance) without posing an unacceptable business risk of exposure to the organization being assessed  • Expiration of the business relationship and treatment of customer (tenant) data impacted  • Customer (tenant) service-to-service application (API) and data interoperability and portability requirements for application development and information exchange, usage, and integrity persistence
0	Visitors are asked to surrender the badge or identification before leaving the facility or at the date of expiration.	The identification, assessment, and prioritization of risks posed by business processes requiring third-party access to the organization's information systems and data shall be followed by coordinated application of resources to minimize, monitor, and measure likelihood and impact of unauthorized or inappropriate access. Compensating controls derived from the risk analysis shall be implemented prior to provisioning access.
0	Access to program source code shall be restricted.	All mobile devices permitted for use through the company BYOD program or a company-assigned mobile device shall allow for remote wipe by the company's corporate IT or shall have all company-provided data wiped by the company's corporate IT.
0	Ensure that the organization’s anti-malware software updates its scanning engine and signature database on a regular basis.	Ensure that the organization’s anti-malware software updates its scanning engine and signature database on a regular basis.
1	All relevant legislative statutory, regulatory, contractual requirements and the organization's approach to meet these requirements shall be explicitly identified, documented and kept up to date for each information system and the organization.	Secured and encrypted communication channels shall be used when migrating physical servers, applications, or data to virtualized servers and, where possible, shall use a network segregated from production-level networks for such migrations.
0	Encrypt all non-console administrative access using strong cryptography.	The company shall have a documented application validation process to test for mobile device, operating system, and application compatibility issues.
0	The organization:  a. Scans for vulnerabilities in the information system and hosted applications [Assignment: organization-defined frequency and/or randomly in accordance with organization-defined process] and when new vulnerabilities potentially affecting the system/applications are identified and reported;  b. Employs vulnerability scanning tools and techniques that facilitate interoperability among tools and automate parts of the vulnerability management process by using standards for:    1. Enumerating platforms, software flaws, and improper configurations;    2. Formatting checklists and test procedures; and    3. Measuring vulnerability impact;  c. Analyzes vulnerability scan reports and results from security control assessments;  d. Remediates legitimate vulnerabilities [Assignment: organization-defined response times], in accordance with an organizational assessment of risk; and  e. Shares information obtained from the vulnerability scanning process and security control assessments with [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles] to help eliminate similar vulnerabilities in other information systems (i.e., systemic weaknesses or deficiencies).	The provider shall use secure (e.g., non-clear text and authenticated) standardized network protocols for the import and export of data and to manage the service, and shall make available a document to consumers (tenants) detailing the relevant interoperability and portability standards that are involved.
0	The organization responds to information spills by:  a. Identifying the specific information involved in the information system contamination;  b. Alerting [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles] of the information spill using a method of communication not associated with the spill;  c. Isolating the contaminated information system or system component;  d. Eradicating the information from the contaminated information system or component;  e. Identifying other information systems or system components that may have been subsequently contaminated; and  f. Performing other [Assignment: organization-defined actions]. Supplemental Guidance: Information spillage refers to instances where either classified or sensitive information is inadvertently placed on information systems that are not authorized to process such information. Such information spills often occur when information that is initially thought to be of lower sensitivity is transmitted to an information system and then is subsequently determined to be of higher sensitivity. At that point, corrective action is required. The nature of the organizational response is generally based upon the degree of sensitivity of the spilled information (e.g., security category or classification level), the security capabilities of the information system, the specific nature of contaminated storage media, and the access authorizations (e.g., security clearances) of individuals with authorized access to the contaminated system. The methods used to communicate information about the spill after the fact do not involve methods directly associated with the actual spill to minimize the risk of further spreading the contamination before such contamination is isolated and eradicated.	Policies and procedures shall be established with supporting business processes and technical measures implemented for the secure disposal and complete removal of data from all storage media, ensuring data is not recoverable by any computer forensic means.
0	A formal user access provisioning process shall be implemented to assign or revoke access rights for all user types to all systems and services.	Utility programs capable of potentially overriding system, object, network, virtual machine, and application controls shall be restricted.
1	The organization:  (a)   Reviews the information system [Assignment: organization-defined frequency] to identify unnecessary and/or nonsecure functions, ports, protocols, and services; and  (b)   Disables [Assignment: organization-defined functions, ports, protocols, and services within the information system deemed to be unnecessary and/or nonsecure].	Utility programs capable of potentially overriding system, object, network, virtual machine, and application controls shall be restricted.
1	Access to all audit trails	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to restrict the installation of unauthorized software on organizationally-owned or managed user end-point devices (e.g., issued workstations, laptops, and mobile devices) and IT infrastructure network and systems components.
0	• What procedures or policies are in place to ensure that environmental issues do not cause an interruption to service?	User access policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for restricting user access as per defined segregation of duties to address business risks associated with a user-role conflict of interest.
0	Deny communications with known malicious or unused Internet IP addresses and limit access only to trusted and necessary IP address ranges at each of the organization’s network boundaries.	User access policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for restricting user access as per defined segregation of duties to address business risks associated with a user-role conflict of interest.
1	The organization controls physical access to information system output devices to prevent unauthorized individuals from obtaining the output.	Physical access to information assets and functions by users and support personnel shall be restricted.
1	Visitors are asked to surrender the badge or identification before leaving the facility or at the date of expiration.	Physical security perimeters (e.g., fences, walls, barriers, guards, gates, electronic surveillance, physical authentication mechanisms, reception desks, and security patrols) shall be implemented to safeguard sensitive data and information systems.
0	The organization:  a. Requires personnel to report suspected security incidents to the organizational incident response capability within [Assignment: organization-defined time period]; and  b. Reports security incident information to [Assignment: organization-defined authorities].	Password policies, applicable to mobile devices, shall be documented and enforced through technical controls on all company devices or devices approved for BYOD usage, and shall prohibit the changing of password/PIN lengths and authentication requirements.
1	Visitors are identified and given a badge or other identification that expires and that visibly distinguishes the visitors from onsite personnel.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to restrict the installation of unauthorized software on organizationally-owned or managed user end-point devices (e.g., issued workstations, laptops, and mobile devices) and IT infrastructure network and systems components.
1	Conduct regular external and internal penetration tests to identify vulnerabilities and attack vectors that can be used to exploit enterprise systems successfully.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting processes and technical measures implemented, for timely detection of vulnerabilities within organizationally-owned or managed applications, infrastructure network and system components (e.g., network vulnerability assessment, penetration testing) to ensure the efficiency of implemented security controls. A risk-based model for prioritizing remediation of identified vulnerabilities shall be used. Changes shall be managed through a change management process for all vendor-supplied patches, configuration changes, or changes to the organization's internally developed software. Upon request, the provider informs customer (tenant) of policies and procedures and identified weaknesses especially if customer (tenant) data is used as part the service and/or customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of control.
0	All relevant legislative statutory, regulatory, contractual requirements and the organization's approach to meet these requirements shall be explicitly identified, documented and kept up to date for each information system and the organization.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to triage security-related events and ensure timely and thorough incident management, as per established IT service management policies and procedures.
0	The organization explicitly authorizes access to [Assignment: organization-defined security functions (deployed in hardware, software, and firmware) and security-relevant information].	The provider shall use an industry-recognized virtualization platform and standard virtualization formats (e.g., OVF) to help ensure interoperability, and shall have documented custom changes made to any hypervisor in use and all solution-specific virtualization hooks available for customer review.
1	• Do you only allow authorised maintenance or repair staff onto the site? o How do you check their identity? 	Physical security perimeters (e.g., fences, walls, barriers, guards, gates, electronic surveillance, physical authentication mechanisms, reception desks, and security patrols) shall be implemented to safeguard sensitive data and information systems.
1	Access points such as delivery and loading areas and other points where unauthorized persons could enter the premises shall be controlled and, if possible, isolated from information processing facilities to avoid unauthorized access.	Ingress and egress to secure areas shall be constrained and monitored by physical access control mechanisms to ensure that only authorized personnel are allowed access.
1	Logical and physical access to information and application systems and functions by users and support personnel shall be restricted in accordance with the defined access control policy.	Provisioning user access (e.g., employees, contractors, customers (tenants), business partners, and/or supplier relationships) to data and organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) applications, infrastructure systems, and network components shall be authorized by the organization's management prior to access being granted and appropriately restricted as per established policies and procedures. Upon request, provider shall inform customer (tenant) of this user access, especially if customer (tenant) data is used as part the service and/or customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of control.
0	The information system maintains a separate execution domain for each executing process.	The information system maintains a separate execution domain for each executing process.
1	An appropriate set of procedures for information labelling shall be developed and implemented in accordance with the information classification scheme adopted by the organization.	Policies and procedures shall be established for the labeling, handling, and security of data and objects which contain data. Mechanisms for label inheritance shall be implemented for objects that act as aggregate containers for data.
0	To lower the chance of spoofed or modified emails from valid domains, implement Domainbased Message Authentication, Reporting and Conformance (DMARC) policy and verification, starting by implementing the Sender Policy Framework (SPF) and the Domain Keys Identified Mail (DKIM) standards.	Providers shall inspect, account for, and work with their cloud supply-chain partners to correct data quality errors and associated risks. Providers shall design and implement controls to mitigate and contain data security risks through proper separation of duties, role-based access, and least-privilege access for all personnel within their supply chain.
0	• Does the provider maintain documented operating procedures for information systems?	Each operating system shall be hardened to provide only necessary ports, protocols, and services to meet business needs and have in place supporting technical controls such as: antivirus, file integrity monitoring, and logging as part of their baseline operating build standard or template.
0	Encrypt all non-console administrative access using strong cryptography.	Data and objects containing data shall be assigned a classification by the data owner based on data type, value, sensitivity, and criticality to the organization.
1	The organization:  a. Develops, documents, and disseminates to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]:    1. A personnel security policy that addresses purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment, coordination among organizational entities, and compliance; and    2. Procedures to facilitate the implementation of the personnel security policy and associated personnel security controls; and  b. Reviews and updates the current:    1. Personnel security policy [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and    2. Personnel security procedures [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for appropriate IT governance and service management to ensure appropriate planning, delivery, and support of the organization's IT capabilities supporting business functions, workforce, and/or customers based on industry acceptable standards (i.e., ITIL v4 and COBIT 5). Additionally, policies and procedures shall include defined roles and responsibilities supported by regular workforce training.
1	The organization prevents the unauthorized removal of maintenance equipment containing organizational information by:  (a)   Verifying that there is no organizational information contained on the equipment;   (b)   Sanitizing or destroying the equipment;  (c)   Retaining the equipment within the facility; or  (d)   Obtaining an exemption from [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles] explicitly authorizing removal of the equipment from the facility.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for equipment maintenance ensuring continuity and availability of operations and support personnel.
0	The organization checks media containing diagnostic and test programs for malicious code before the media are used in the information system.	Risk assessment results shall include updates to security policies, procedures, standards, and controls to ensure that they remain relevant and effective.
0	The organization permits authorized individuals to use an external information system to access the information system or to process, store, or transmit organization-controlled information only when the organization:  (a)   Verifies the implementation of required security controls on the external system as specified in the organization’s information security policy and security plan; or  (b)   Retains approved information system connection or processing agreements with the organizational entity hosting the external information system.	Each operating system shall be hardened to provide only necessary ports, protocols, and services to meet business needs and have in place supporting technical controls such as: antivirus, file integrity monitoring, and logging as part of their baseline operating build standard or template.
0	The organization:  a. Requires personnel to report suspected security incidents to the organizational incident response capability within [Assignment: organization-defined time period]; and  b. Reports security incident information to [Assignment: organization-defined authorities].	Requirements for non-disclosure or confidentiality agreements reflecting the organization's needs for the protection of data and operational details shall be identified, documented, and reviewed at planned intervals.
1	All relevant legislative statutory, regulatory, contractual requirements and the organization's approach to meet these requirements shall be explicitly identified, documented and kept up to date for each information system and the organization.	Organizations shall create and maintain a control framework which captures standards, regulatory, legal, and statutory requirements relevant for their business needs. The control framework shall be reviewed at least annually to ensure changes that could affect the business processes are reflected.
1	Information systems shall be regularly reviewed for compliance with the organization's information security policies and standards.	The company shall have a documented application validation process to test for mobile device, operating system, and application compatibility issues.
1	Managers shall regularly review the compliance of information processing and procedures within their area of responsibility with the appropriate security policies, standards and any other security requirements.	The provider shall use an industry-recognized virtualization platform and standard virtualization formats (e.g., OVF) to help ensure interoperability, and shall have documented custom changes made to any hypervisor in use and all solution-specific virtualization hooks available for customer review.
1	Assets associated with information and information processing facilities shall be identified and an inventory of these assets shall be drawn up and maintained.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to protect wireless network environments, including the following:  • Perimeter firewalls implemented and configured to restrict unauthorized traffic  • Security settings enabled with strong encryption for authentication and transmission, replacing vendor default settings (e.g., encryption keys, passwords, and SNMP community strings)  • User access to wireless network devices restricted to authorized personnel  • The capability to detect the presence of unauthorized (rogue) wireless network devices for a timely disconnect from the network
1	Implement physical and/or logical controls to restrict access to publicly accessible network jacks.	Ingress and egress points such as service areas and other points where unauthorized personnel may enter the premises shall be monitored, controlled and, if possible, isolated from data storage and processing facilities to prevent unauthorized data corruption, compromise, and loss.
0	For wireless environments connected to the cardholder data environment or transmitting cardholder data, change ALL wireless vendor defaults at installation, including but not limited to default wireless encryption keys, passwords, and SNMP community strings.	The BYOD policy shall define the device and eligibility requirements to allow for BYOD usage.
1	Operating procedures shall be documented and made available to all users who need them.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for appropriate IT governance and service management to ensure appropriate planning, delivery, and support of the organization's IT capabilities supporting business functions, workforce, and/or customers based on industry acceptable standards (i.e., ITIL v4 and COBIT 5). Additionally, policies and procedures shall include defined roles and responsibilities supported by regular workforce training.
0	Limit access to system components and cardholder data to only those individuals whose job requires such access.	Pursuant to local laws, regulations, ethics, and contractual constraints, all employment candidates, contractors, and third parties shall be subject to background verification proportional to the data classification to be accessed, the business requirements, and acceptable risk.
0	The organization:  a. Determines the types of changes to the information system that are configuration-controlled;  b. Reviews proposed configuration-controlled changes to the information system and approves or disapproves such changes with explicit consideration for security impact analyses;  c. Documents configuration change decisions associated with the information system;  d. Implements approved configuration-controlled changes to the information system;  e. Retains records of configuration-controlled changes to the information system for [Assignment: organization-defined time period];  f. Audits and reviews activities associated with configuration-controlled changes to the information system; and  g. Coordinates and provides oversight for configuration change control activities through [Assignment: organization-defined configuration change control element (e.g., committee, board] that convenes [Selection (one or more): [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; [Assignment: organization-defined configuration change conditions]].	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for defining and adhering to the retention period of any critical asset as per established policies and procedures, as well as applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance obligations. Backup and recovery measures shall be incorporated as part of business continuity planning and tested accordingly for effectiveness.
0	The organization: a. Facilitates information sharing by enabling authorized users to determine whether access authorizations assigned to the sharing partner match the access restrictions on the information for [Assignment: organization-defined information sharing circumstances where user discretion is required]; and b. Employs [Assignment: organization-defined automated mechanisms or manual processes] to assist users in making information sharing/collaboration decisions.   Supplemental Guidance: This control applies to information that may be restricted in some manner (e.g., privileged medical information, contract-sensitive information, proprietary information, personally identifiable information, classified information related to special access programs or compartments) based on some formal or administrative determination. Depending on the particular information-sharing circumstances, sharing partners may be defined at the individual, group, or organizational level. Information may be defined by content, type, security category, or special access program/compartment. Related control: AC-3.	The organization: a. Facilitates information sharing by enabling authorized users to determine whether access authorizations assigned to the sharing partner match the access restrictions on the information for [Assignment: organization-defined information sharing circumstances where user discretion is required]; and b. Employs [Assignment: organization-defined automated mechanisms or manual processes] to assist users in making information sharing/collaboration decisions.   Supplemental Guidance: This control applies to information that may be restricted in some manner (e.g., privileged medical information, contract-sensitive information, proprietary information, personally identifiable information, classified information related to special access programs or compartments) based on some formal or administrative determination. Depending on the particular information-sharing circumstances, sharing partners may be defined at the individual, group, or organizational level. Information may be defined by content, type, security category, or special access program/compartment. Related control: AC-3.
0	The organization, upon termination of individual employment:  a. Disables information system access within [Assignment: organization-defined time period];  b. Terminates/revokes any authenticators/credentials associated with the individual;  c. Conducts exit interviews that include a discussion of [Assignment: organization-defined information security topics];  d. Retrieves all security-related organizational information system-related property;  e. Retains access to organizational information and information systems formerly controlled by terminated individual; and  f. Notifies [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles] within [Assignment: organization-defined time period].	The organization's business leadership (or other accountable business role or function) shall review the information security policy at planned intervals or as a result of changes to the organization to ensure its continuing alignment with the security strategy, effectiveness, accuracy, relevance, and applicability to legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance obligations.
0	Assets maintained in the inventory shall be owned.	Policies, procedures, and mutually-agreed upon provisions and/or terms shall be established to satisfy customer (tenant) requirements for service-to-service application (API) and information processing interoperability, and portability for application development and information exchange, usage, and integrity persistence.
0	To limit the collection of PII to that which is within the boundaries of applicable law and strictly necessary for the specified purpose(s).	Policies and procedures shall be established for the labeling, handling, and security of data and objects which contain data. Mechanisms for label inheritance shall be implemented for objects that act as aggregate containers for data.
1	• How will the data provided by the customer and the customer’s customers, be collected, processed and transferred?	Supply chain agreements (e.g., SLAs) between providers and customers (tenants) shall incorporate at least the following mutually-agreed upon provisions and/or terms:  • Scope of business relationship and services offered (e.g., customer (tenant) data acquisition, exchange and usage, feature sets and functionality, personnel and infrastructure network and systems components for service delivery and support, roles and responsibilities of provider and customer (tenant) and any subcontracted or outsourced business relationships, physical geographical location of hosted services, and any known regulatory compliance considerations)  • Information security requirements, provider and customer (tenant) primary points of contact for the duration of the business relationship, and references to detailed supporting and relevant business processes and technical measures implemented to enable effectively governance, risk management, assurance and legal, statutory and regulatory compliance obligations by all impacted business relationships  • Notification and/or pre-authorization of any changes controlled by the provider with customer (tenant) impacts  • Timely notification of a security incident (or confirmed breach) to all customers (tenants) and other business relationships impacted (i.e., up- and down-stream impacted supply chain)  • Assessment and independent verification of compliance with agreement provisions and/or terms (e.g., industry-acceptable certification, attestation audit report, or equivalent forms of assurance) without posing an unacceptable business risk of exposure to the organization being assessed  • Expiration of the business relationship and treatment of customer (tenant) data impacted  • Customer (tenant) service-to-service application (API) and data interoperability and portability requirements for application development and information exchange, usage, and integrity persistence
1	Additional requirement for service providers only: Service providers with remote access to customer premises (for example, for support of POS systems or servers) must use a unique authentication credential (such as a password/phrase) for each customer.	Keys must have identifiable owners (binding keys to identities) and there shall be key management policies.
0	A management authorization process for new information assets (e.g. systems and applications) (see Other Information), and facilities (e.g. data centers or offices where covered information is to be processed) shall be defined and implemented.	Network environments and virtual instances shall be designed and configured to restrict and monitor traffic between trusted and untrusted connections. These configurations shall be reviewed at least annually, and supported by a documented justification for use for all allowed services, protocols, ports, and by compensating controls.
1	Remove/disable inactive user accounts within 90 days.	Timely de-provisioning (revocation or modification) of user access to data and organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) applications, infrastructure systems, and network components, shall be implemented as per established policies and procedures and based on user's change in status (e.g., termination of employment or other business relationship, job change, or transfer). Upon request, provider shall inform customer (tenant) of these changes, especially if customer (tenant) data is used as part the service and/or customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of control.
1	Information systems shall be regularly reviewed for compliance with the organization's information security policies and standards.	Providers shall inspect, account for, and work with their cloud supply-chain partners to correct data quality errors and associated risks. Providers shall design and implement controls to mitigate and contain data security risks through proper separation of duties, role-based access, and least-privilege access for all personnel within their supply chain.
0	The organization:  a. Determines the types of changes to the information system that are configuration-controlled;  b. Reviews proposed configuration-controlled changes to the information system and approves or disapproves such changes with explicit consideration for security impact analyses;  c. Documents configuration change decisions associated with the information system;  d. Implements approved configuration-controlled changes to the information system;  e. Retains records of configuration-controlled changes to the information system for [Assignment: organization-defined time period];  f. Audits and reviews activities associated with configuration-controlled changes to the information system; and  g. Coordinates and provides oversight for configuration change control activities through [Assignment: organization-defined configuration change control element (e.g., committee, board] that convenes [Selection (one or more): [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; [Assignment: organization-defined configuration change conditions]].	Risk assessments associated with data governance requirements shall be conducted at planned intervals and shall consider the following:  • Awareness of where sensitive data is stored and transmitted across applications, databases, servers, and network infrastructure  • Compliance with defined retention periods and end-of-life disposal requirements  • Data classification and protection from unauthorized use, access, loss, destruction, and falsification
1	The organization:  (a)   Develops primary and alternate telecommunications service agreements that contain priority- of-service provisions in accordance with organizational availability requirements (including recovery time objectives); and  (b)   Requests Telecommunications Service Priority for all telecommunications services used for national security emergency preparedness in the event that the primary and/or alternate telecommunications services are provided by a common carrier.	Protection measures shall be put into place to react to natural and man-made threats based upon a geographically-specific business impact assessment.
1	Access to program source code shall be restricted.	Access to the organization's own developed applications, program, or object source code, or any other form of intellectual property (IP), and use of proprietary software shall be appropriately restricted following the rule of least privilege based on job function as per established user access policies and procedures.
0	Information systems shall be regularly reviewed for compliance with the organization's information security policies and standards.	Protection measures shall be put into place to react to natural and man-made threats based upon a geographically-specific business impact assessment.
1	Establish, document, and distribute security incident response and escalation procedures to ensure timely and effective handling of all situations.	Points of contact for applicable regulation authorities, national and local law enforcement, and other legal jurisdictional authorities shall be maintained and regularly updated (e.g., change in impacted-scope and/or a change in any compliance obligation) to ensure direct compliance liaisons have been established and to be prepared for a forensic investigation requiring rapid engagement with law enforcement.
0	Visitors are asked to surrender the badge or identification before leaving the facility or at the date of expiration.	Policies, procedures, and mutually-agreed upon provisions and/or terms shall be established to satisfy customer (tenant) requirements for service-to-service application (API) and information processing interoperability, and portability for application development and information exchange, usage, and integrity persistence.
1	The organization permits authorized individuals to use an external information system to access the information system or to process, store, or transmit organization-controlled information only when the organization:  (a)   Verifies the implementation of required security controls on the external system as specified in the organization’s information security policy and security plan; or  (b)   Retains approved information system connection or processing agreements with the organizational entity hosting the external information system.	BYOD and/or company-owned devices are configured to require an automatic lockout screen, and the requirement shall be enforced through technical controls.
1	The implementation of changes, including patches, service packs, and other updates and modifications, shall be controlled by the use of formal change control procedures.	The provider shall ensure the integrity of all virtual machine images at all times. Any changes made to virtual machine images must be logged and an alert raised regardless of their running state (e.g., dormant, off, or running). The results of a change or move of an image and the subsequent validation of the image's integrity must be immediately available to customers through electronic methods (e.g., portals or alerts).
0	• Are there different policies depending on where the data is stored or applications are run? o For example, hiring policies in one region may be different from those in another. o Practices need to be consistent across regions. o It may be that sensitive data is stored in one particular region with appropriate personnel. 	Assets must be classified in terms of business criticality, service-level expectations, and operational continuity requirements. A complete inventory of business-critical assets located at all sites and/or geographical locations and their usage over time shall be maintained and updated regularly, and assigned ownership by defined roles and responsibilities.
1	The organization:  a. Develops a security assessment plan that describes the scope of the assessment including:    1. Security controls and control enhancements under assessment;    2. Assessment procedures to be used to determine security control effectiveness; and    3. Assessment environment, assessment team, and assessment roles and responsibilities;  b. Assesses the security controls in the information system and its environment of operation [Assignment: organization-defined frequency] to determine the extent to which the controls are implemented correctly, operating as intended, and producing the desired outcome with respect to meeting established security requirements;  c. Produces a security assessment report that documents the results of the assessment; and  d. Provides the results of the security control assessment to [Assignment: organization-defined individuals or roles].	The provider shall perform annual internal assessments of conformance to, and effectiveness of, its policies, procedures, and supporting measures and metrics.
1	Procedures for handling assets shall be developed and implemented in accordance with the information classification scheme adopted by the organization.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for defining and adhering to the retention period of any critical asset as per established policies and procedures, as well as applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance obligations. Backup and recovery measures shall be incorporated as part of business continuity planning and tested accordingly for effectiveness.
0	Ensure that security policies and operational procedures for security monitoring and testing are documented, in use, and known to all affected parties.	A reliable and mutually agreed upon external time source shall be used to synchronize the system clocks of all relevant information processing systems to facilitate tracing and reconstitution of activity timelines.
1	Equipment shall be sited and protected to reduce the risks from environmental threats and hazards, and opportunities for unauthorized access.	Physical protection against damage from natural causes and disasters, as well as deliberate attacks, including fire, flood, atmospheric electrical discharge, solar induced geomagnetic storm, wind, earthquake, tsunami, explosion, nuclear accident, volcanic activity, biological hazard, civil unrest, mudslide, tectonic activity, and other forms of natural or man-made disaster shall be anticipated, designed, and have countermeasures applied.
1	If USB storage devices are required, all data stored on such devices must be encrypted while at rest.	Higher levels of assurance are required for protection, retention, and lifecycle management of audit logs, adhering to applicable legal, statutory or regulatory compliance obligations and providing unique user access accountability to detect potentially suspicious network behaviors and/or file integrity anomalies, and to support forensic investigative capabilities in the event of a security breach.
1	The organization:  a. Obtains administrator documentation for the information system, system component, or information system service that describes:    1. Secure configuration, installation, and operation of the system, component, or service;    2. Effective use and maintenance of security functions/mechanisms; and    3. Known vulnerabilities regarding configuration and use of administrative (i.e., privileged) functions;  b. Obtains user documentation for the information system, system component, or information system service that describes:    1. User-accessible security functions/mechanisms and how to effectively use those security functions/mechanisms;    2. Methods for user interaction, which enables individuals to use the system, component, or service in a more secure manner; and    3. User responsibilities in maintaining the security of the system, component, or service;  c. Documents attempts to obtain information system, system component, or information system service documentation when such documentation is either unavailable or nonexistent and [Assignment: organization-defined actions] in response;  d. Protects documentation as required, in accordance with the risk management strategy; and e. Distributes documentation to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]. 	Information system documentation (e.g., administrator and user guides, and architecture diagrams) shall be made available to authorized personnel to ensure the following:  • Configuring, installing, and operating the information system  • Effectively using the system’s security features
1	Operating procedures shall be documented and made available to all users who need them.	Organizations shall follow a defined quality change control and testing process (e.g., ITIL Service Management) with established baselines, testing, and release standards that focus on system availability, confidentiality, and integrity of systems and services.
1	• Do you protect your buildings from lightening strikes? o Including electrical and communication lines? 	To reduce the risks from environmental threats, hazards, and opportunities for unauthorized access, equipment shall be kept away from locations subject to high probability environmental risks and supplemented by redundant equipment located at a reasonable distance.
1	• Do any accounts have system-wide privileges for the entire cloud system and, if so, for what operations (read/write/delete)?	Multi-tenant organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) applications, and infrastructure system and network components, shall be designed, developed, deployed, and configured such that provider and customer (tenant) user access is appropriately segmented from other tenant users, based on the following considerations:  • Established policies and procedures  • Isolation of business critical assets and/or sensitive user data, and sessions that mandate stronger internal controls and high levels of assurance  • Compliance with legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations
1	Statements of business requirements for new information systems (developed or purchased), or enhancements to existing information systems shall specify the requirements for security controls.	Baseline security requirements shall be established for developed or acquired, organizationally-owned or managed, physical or virtual, applications and infrastructure system and network components that comply with applicable legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations. Deviations from standard baseline configurations must be authorized following change management policies and procedures prior to deployment, provisioning, or use. Compliance with security baseline requirements must be reassessed at least annually unless an alternate frequency has been established and authorized based on business needs.
0	Review custom code prior to release to production or customers in order to identify any potential coding vulnerability (using either manual or automated processes) to include at least the following:  Code changes are reviewed by individuals other than the originating code author, and by individuals knowledgeable about code-review techniques and secure coding practices.  Code reviews ensure code is developed according to secure coding guidelines  Appropriate corrections are implemented prior to release.  Code-review results are reviewed and approved by management prior to release.(Continued on next page)PCI DSS Requirements	Secured and encrypted communication channels shall be used when migrating physical servers, applications, or data to virtualized servers and, where possible, shall use a network segregated from production-level networks for such migrations.
1	Information systems shall be regularly reviewed for compliance with the organization's information security policies and standards.	A centralized, mobile device management solution shall be deployed to all mobile devices permitted to store, transmit, or process customer data.
0	Removal of test data and accounts from system components before the system becomes active / goes into production.	Risk assessments associated with data governance requirements shall be conducted at planned intervals and shall consider the following:  • Awareness of where sensitive data is stored and transmitted across applications, databases, servers, and network infrastructure  • Compliance with defined retention periods and end-of-life disposal requirements  • Data classification and protection from unauthorized use, access, loss, destruction, and falsification
0	The integrity of information being made available on a publicly available system shall be protected to prevent unauthorized modification.	The integrity of information being made available on a publicly available system shall be protected to prevent unauthorized modification.
1	On a regular basis, review logs to identify anomalies or abnormal events.	Higher levels of assurance are required for protection, retention, and lifecycle management of audit logs, adhering to applicable legal, statutory or regulatory compliance obligations and providing unique user access accountability to detect potentially suspicious network behaviors and/or file integrity anomalies, and to support forensic investigative capabilities in the event of a security breach.
0	The organization connects and configures individual intrusion detection tools into an information system-wide intrusion detection system. 	All personnel shall be made aware of their roles and responsibilities for:  • Maintaining awareness and compliance with established policies and procedures and applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance obligations.  • Maintaining a safe and secure working environment
0	Testing of security functionality shall be carried out during development.	Testing of security functionality shall be carried out during development.
0	Information systems shall be regularly reviewed for compliance with the organization's information security policies and standards.	The organization's business leadership (or other accountable business role or function) shall review the information security policy at planned intervals or as a result of changes to the organization to ensure its continuing alignment with the security strategy, effectiveness, accuracy, relevance, and applicability to legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance obligations.
0	The information system implements multifactor authentication for network access to non- privileged accounts. 	Ingress and egress points such as service areas and other points where unauthorized personnel may enter the premises shall be monitored, controlled and, if possible, isolated from data storage and processing facilities to prevent unauthorized data corruption, compromise, and loss.
1	• Can the provider detail what information is recorded within audit logs? o For what period is this data retained? o Is it possible to segment data within audit logs so they can be made available to the end customer and/or law enforcement without compromising other customers and still be admissible in court? o What controls are employed to protect logs from unauthorised access or tampering? o What method is used to check and protect the integrity of audit logs? 	Access to, and use of, audit tools that interact with the organization's information systems shall be appropriately segregated and access restricted to prevent inappropriate disclosure and tampering of log data.
1	The organization establishes terms and conditions, consistent with any trust relationships established with other organizations owning, operating, and/or maintaining external information systems, allowing authorized individuals to:  a. Access the information system from external information systems; and  b. Process, store, or transmit organization-controlled information using external information systems.	The BYOD policy shall define the device and eligibility requirements to allow for BYOD usage.
0	An access control policy shall be established, documented and reviewed based on business and information security requirements.	The BYOD policy and supporting awareness training clearly states the approved applications, application stores, and application extensions and plugins that may be used for BYOD usage.
0	Implement response procedures to be initiated upon the detection of clear-text PAN outside of the CDE to include:§ Procedures for determining what to do if clear-text PAN is discovered outside of the CDE, including its retrieval, secure deletion and/or migration into the currently defined CDE, as applicable§ Procedures for determining how the data ended up outside of the CDE§ Procedures for remediating data leaks or process gaps that resulted in the data being outside of the CDE§ Procedures for identifying the source of the data§ Procedures for identifying whether any track data is stored with the PANs	Implement response procedures to be initiated upon the detection of clear-text PAN outside of the CDE to include:§ Procedures for determining what to do if clear-text PAN is discovered outside of the CDE, including its retrieval, secure deletion and/or migration into the currently defined CDE, as applicable§ Procedures for determining how the data ended up outside of the CDE§ Procedures for remediating data leaks or process gaps that resulted in the data being outside of the CDE§ Procedures for identifying the source of the data§ Procedures for identifying whether any track data is stored with the PANs
0	Implement audit trails to link all access to system components to each individual user.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for appropriate IT governance and service management to ensure appropriate planning, delivery, and support of the organization's IT capabilities supporting business functions, workforce, and/or customers based on industry acceptable standards (i.e., ITIL v4 and COBIT 5). Additionally, policies and procedures shall include defined roles and responsibilities supported by regular workforce training.
1	Ensure that all system components and software are protected from known vulnerabilities by installing applicable vendor- supplied security patches. Install critical security patches within one month of release.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting processes and technical measures implemented, for timely detection of vulnerabilities within organizationally-owned or managed applications, infrastructure network and system components (e.g., network vulnerability assessment, penetration testing) to ensure the efficiency of implemented security controls. A risk-based model for prioritizing remediation of identified vulnerabilities shall be used. Changes shall be managed through a change management process for all vendor-supplied patches, configuration changes, or changes to the organization's internally developed software. Upon request, the provider informs customer (tenant) of policies and procedures and identified weaknesses especially if customer (tenant) data is used as part the service and/or customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of control.
1	Subscribe to URL categorization services to ensure that they are up-to-date with the most recent website category definitions available. Uncategorized sites shall be blocked by default.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to protect wireless network environments, including the following:  • Perimeter firewalls implemented and configured to restrict unauthorized traffic  • Security settings enabled with strong encryption for authentication and transmission, replacing vendor default settings (e.g., encryption keys, passwords, and SNMP community strings)  • User access to wireless network devices restricted to authorized personnel  • The capability to detect the presence of unauthorized (rogue) wireless network devices for a timely disconnect from the network
1	Ensure that only authorized scripting languages are able to run in all web browsers and email clients.	Each operating system shall be hardened to provide only necessary ports, protocols, and services to meet business needs and have in place supporting technical controls such as: antivirus, file integrity monitoring, and logging as part of their baseline operating build standard or template.
1	• Is user directory data exportable in an interoperable format?	Policies, procedures, and mutually-agreed upon provisions and/or terms shall be established to satisfy customer (tenant) requirements for service-to-service application (API) and information processing interoperability, and portability for application development and information exchange, usage, and integrity persistence.
0	Implement response procedures to be initiated upon the detection of clear-text PAN outside of the CDE to include:§ Procedures for determining what to do if clear-text PAN is discovered outside of the CDE, including its retrieval, secure deletion and/or migration into the currently defined CDE, as applicable§ Procedures for determining how the data ended up outside of the CDE§ Procedures for remediating data leaks or process gaps that resulted in the data being outside of the CDE§ Procedures for identifying the source of the data§ Procedures for identifying whether any track data is stored with the PANs	Utility programs capable of potentially overriding system, object, network, virtual machine, and application controls shall be restricted.
1	Limit access to system components and cardholder data to only those individuals whose job requires such access.	User access policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for ensuring appropriate identity, entitlement, and access management for all internal corporate and customer (tenant) users with access to data and organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) application interfaces and infrastructure network and systems components. These policies, procedures, processes, and measures must incorporate the following:  • Procedures, supporting roles, and responsibilities for provisioning and de-provisioning user account entitlements following the rule of least privilege based on job function (e.g., internal employee and contingent staff personnel changes, customer-controlled access, suppliers' business relationships, or other third-party business relationships)  • Business case considerations for higher levels of assurance and multi-factor authentication secrets (e.g., management interfaces, key generation, remote access, segregation of duties, emergency access, large-scale provisioning or geographically-distributed deployments, and personnel redundancy for critical systems)  • Access segmentation to sessions and data in multi-tenant architectures by any third party (e.g., provider and/or other customer (tenant))  • Identity trust verification and service-to-service application (API) and information processing interoperability (e.g., SSO and federation)  • Account credential lifecycle management from instantiation through revocation  • Account credential and/or identity store minimization or re-use when feasible  • Authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules for access to data and sessions (e.g., encryption and strong/multi-factor, expireable, non-shared authentication secrets)  • Permissions and supporting capabilities for customer (tenant) controls over authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules for access to data and sessions  • Adherence to applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance requirements
1	Records shall be protected from loss, destruction, falsification, unauthorized access and unauthorized release, in accordance with legislator^ regulatory, contractual and business requirements.	Risk assessments associated with data governance requirements shall be conducted at planned intervals and shall consider the following:  • Awareness of where sensitive data is stored and transmitted across applications, databases, servers, and network infrastructure  • Compliance with defined retention periods and end-of-life disposal requirements  • Data classification and protection from unauthorized use, access, loss, destruction, and falsification
1	Physically or logically segregated systems should be used to isolate and run software that is required for business operations but incur higher risk for the organization.	Network environments and virtual instances shall be designed and configured to restrict and monitor traffic between trusted and untrusted connections. These configurations shall be reviewed at least annually, and supported by a documented justification for use for all allowed services, protocols, ports, and by compensating controls.
1	Secure audit trails so they cannot be altered.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to restrict the installation of unauthorized software on organizationally-owned or managed user end-point devices (e.g., issued workstations, laptops, and mobile devices) and IT infrastructure network and systems components.
0	Create the incident response plan to be implemented in the event of system breach. Ensure the plan addresses the following, at a minimum:  Roles, responsibilities, and communication and contact strategies in the event of a compromise including notification of the payment brands, at a minimum  Specific incident response procedures  Business recovery and continuity procedures  Data backup processes  Analysis of legal requirements for reporting compromises  Coverage and responses of all critical system components  Reference or inclusion of incident response procedures from the payment brands.	Supply chain agreements (e.g., SLAs) between providers and customers (tenants) shall incorporate at least the following mutually-agreed upon provisions and/or terms:  • Scope of business relationship and services offered (e.g., customer (tenant) data acquisition, exchange and usage, feature sets and functionality, personnel and infrastructure network and systems components for service delivery and support, roles and responsibilities of provider and customer (tenant) and any subcontracted or outsourced business relationships, physical geographical location of hosted services, and any known regulatory compliance considerations)  • Information security requirements, provider and customer (tenant) primary points of contact for the duration of the business relationship, and references to detailed supporting and relevant business processes and technical measures implemented to enable effectively governance, risk management, assurance and legal, statutory and regulatory compliance obligations by all impacted business relationships  • Notification and/or pre-authorization of any changes controlled by the provider with customer (tenant) impacts  • Timely notification of a security incident (or confirmed breach) to all customers (tenants) and other business relationships impacted (i.e., up- and down-stream impacted supply chain)  • Assessment and independent verification of compliance with agreement provisions and/or terms (e.g., industry-acceptable certification, attestation audit report, or equivalent forms of assurance) without posing an unacceptable business risk of exposure to the organization being assessed  • Expiration of the business relationship and treatment of customer (tenant) data impacted  • Customer (tenant) service-to-service application (API) and data interoperability and portability requirements for application development and information exchange, usage, and integrity persistence
1	System administrator and system operator activities shall be logged and regularly reviewed.	Higher levels of assurance are required for protection, retention, and lifecycle management of audit logs, adhering to applicable legal, statutory or regulatory compliance obligations and providing unique user access accountability to detect potentially suspicious network behaviors and/or file integrity anomalies, and to support forensic investigative capabilities in the event of a security breach.
1	Ensure that all systems that store logs have adequate storage space for the logs generated.	The availability, quality, and adequate capacity and resources shall be planned, prepared, and measured to deliver the required system performance in accordance with legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations. Projections of future capacity requirements shall be made to mitigate the risk of system overload.
0	An access control policy shall be established, documented and reviewed based on business and information security requirements.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for the use of encryption protocols for protection of sensitive data in storage (e.g., file servers, databases, and end-user workstations), data in use (memory), and data in transmission (e.g., system interfaces, over public networks, and electronic messaging) as per applicable legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations.
0	The organization retains audit records for [Assignment: organization-defined time period consistent with records retention policy] to provide support for after-the-fact investigations of security incidents and to meet regulatory and organizational information retention requirements.	The organization retains audit records for [Assignment: organization-defined time period consistent with records retention policy] to provide support for after-the-fact investigations of security incidents and to meet regulatory and organizational information retention requirements.
0	A visitor log is used to maintain a physical audit trail of visitor activity to the facility as well as computer rooms and data centers where cardholder data is stored or transmitted.	Assets must be classified in terms of business criticality, service-level expectations, and operational continuity requirements. A complete inventory of business-critical assets located at all sites and/or geographical locations and their usage over time shall be maintained and updated regularly, and assigned ownership by defined roles and responsibilities.
1	• Are any high-privilege roles allocated to the same person? Does this allocation break the segregation of duties or least privilege rules?	Provisioning user access (e.g., employees, contractors, customers (tenants), business partners, and/or supplier relationships) to data and organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) applications, infrastructure systems, and network components shall be authorized by the organization's management prior to access being granted and appropriately restricted as per established policies and procedures. Upon request, provider shall inform customer (tenant) of this user access, especially if customer (tenant) data is used as part the service and/or customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of control.
1	Management shall require employees, and where applicable, contractors and third-party users, to apply security in accordance with established policies and procedures of the organization.	The BYOD policy shall define the device and eligibility requirements to allow for BYOD usage.
0	Fully document and implement all key- management processes and procedures for cryptographic keys used for encryption of cardholder data, including the following:	Production data shall not be replicated or used in non-production environments. Any use of customer data in non-production environments requires explicit, documented approval from all customers whose data is affected, and must comply with all legal and regulatory requirements for scrubbing of sensitive data elements.
0	Acceptance criteria for new information systems, upgrades, and new versions shall be established and suitable tests of the system(s) carried out during development and prior to acceptance to maintain security.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to inventory, document, and maintain data flows for data that is resident (permanently or temporarily) within the service's geographically distributed (physical and virtual) applications and infrastructure network and systems components and/or shared with other third parties to ascertain any regulatory, statutory, or supply chain agreement (SLA) compliance impact, and to address any other business risks associated with the data. Upon request, provider shall inform customer (tenant) of compliance impact and risk, especially if customer data is used as part of the services.
0	Identify and respond to suspicious events	Timely de-provisioning (revocation or modification) of user access to data and organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) applications, infrastructure systems, and network components, shall be implemented as per established policies and procedures and based on user's change in status (e.g., termination of employment or other business relationship, job change, or transfer). Upon request, provider shall inform customer (tenant) of these changes, especially if customer (tenant) data is used as part the service and/or customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of control.
1	Managers shall regularly review the compliance of information processing and procedures within their area of responsibility with the appropriate security policies, standards and any other security requirements.	Organizations shall follow a defined quality change control and testing process (e.g., ITIL Service Management) with established baselines, testing, and release standards that focus on system availability, confidentiality, and integrity of systems and services.
0	Never send unprotected PANs by end- user messaging technologies (for example, e- mail, instant messaging, SMS, chat, etc.).	The provider shall perform annual internal assessments of conformance to, and effectiveness of, its policies, procedures, and supporting measures and metrics.
0	Management shall require all employees and contractors to apply information security in accordance with the established policies and procedures of the organization.	Executive and line management shall take formal action to support information security through clearly-documented direction and commitment, and shall ensure the action has been assigned.
0	There shall be procedures in place to control the installation of software on operational systems.	BYOD and/or company-owned devices are configured to require an automatic lockout screen, and the requirement shall be enforced through technical controls.
0	The information system routes all remote accesses through [Assignment: organization-defined number] managed network access control points.	Prior to granting customers access to data, assets, and information systems, identified security, contractual, and regulatory requirements for customer access shall be addressed.
0	Implement audit trails to link all access to system components to each individual user.	Organizations shall create and maintain a control framework which captures standards, regulatory, legal, and statutory requirements relevant for their business needs. The control framework shall be reviewed at least annually to ensure changes that could affect the business processes are reflected.
1	The organization:  a. Develops, documents, and disseminates to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]:    1. A system and information integrity policy that addresses purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment, coordination among organizational entities, and compliance; and    2. Procedures to facilitate the implementation of the system and information integrity policy and associated system and information integrity controls; and  b. Reviews and updates the current:    1. System and information integrity policy [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and    2.  System and information integrity procedures [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	The organization's business leadership (or other accountable business role or function) shall review the information security policy at planned intervals or as a result of changes to the organization to ensure its continuing alignment with the security strategy, effectiveness, accuracy, relevance, and applicability to legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance obligations.
1	The information system protects the [Selection (one or more): confidentiality; integrity] of transmitted information.	Data related to electronic commerce (ecommerce) that traverses public networks shall be appropriately classified and protected from fraudulent activity, unauthorized disclosure, or modification in such a manner to prevent contract dispute and compromise of data.
0	Implement physical and/or logical controls to restrict access to publicly accessible network jacks.	Data related to electronic commerce (ecommerce) that traverses public networks shall be appropriately classified and protected from fraudulent activity, unauthorized disclosure, or modification in such a manner to prevent contract dispute and compromise of data.
1	There shall be procedures in place to control the installation of software on operational systems.	All structured and unstructured data shall be available to the customer and provided to them upon request in an industry-standard format (e.g., .doc, .xls, .pdf, logs, and flat files).
1	• Are any high-privilege roles allocated to the same person? Does this allocation break the segregation of duties or least privilege rules?	User access policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for restricting user access as per defined segregation of duties to address business risks associated with a user-role conflict of interest.
1	Changes to systems within the development lifecycle shall be controlled by the use of formal change control procedures.	Production data shall not be replicated or used in non-production environments. Any use of customer data in non-production environments requires explicit, documented approval from all customers whose data is affected, and must comply with all legal and regulatory requirements for scrubbing of sensitive data elements.
0	A policy on the use of cryptographic controls for protection of information shall be developed and implemented.	The provider shall use open and published APIs to ensure support for interoperability between components and to facilitate migrating applications.
0	• Do you follow manufacturers recommended maintenance schedules?	A formal disciplinary or sanction policy shall be established for employees who have violated security policies and procedures. Employees shall be made aware of what action might be taken in the event of a violation, and disciplinary measures must be stated in the policies and procedures.
0	The organization limits the number of external network connections to the information system.	The organization limits the number of external network connections to the information system.
0	The organization:  a. Separates [Assignment: organization-defined duties of individuals];  b. Documents separation of duties of individuals; and  c. Defines information system access authorizations to support separation of duties.	Managers are responsible for maintaining awareness of, and complying with, security policies, procedures, and standards that are relevant to their area of responsibility.
0	• Detail your change control procedure and policy. This should also include the process used to re-assess risks as a result of changes and clarify whether the outputs are available to end customers.	Policies and procedures shall be established for the management of cryptographic keys in the service's cryptosystem (e.g., lifecycle management from key generation to revocation and replacement, public key infrastructure, cryptographic protocol design and algorithms used, access controls in place for secure key generation, and exchange and storage including segregation of keys used for encrypted data or sessions). Upon request, provider shall inform the customer (tenant) of changes within the cryptosystem, especially if the customer (tenant) data is used as part of the service, and/or the customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of the control.
0	Additional requirement for service providers only: Implement a process for the timely detection and reporting of failures of critical security control systems, including but not limited to failure of:  Firewalls  IDS/IPS  FIM  Anti-virus  Physical access controls  Logical access controls  Audit logging mechanisms  Segmentation controls (if used)	Pursuant to local laws, regulations, ethics, and contractual constraints, all employment candidates, contractors, and third parties shall be subject to background verification proportional to the data classification to be accessed, the business requirements, and acceptable risk.
1	Management shall actively support security within the organization through clear direction, demonstrated commitment, explicit assignment, and acknowledgment of information security responsibilities.	Executive and line management shall take formal action to support information security through clearly-documented direction and commitment, and shall ensure the action has been assigned.
1	Data output from an application shall be validated to ensure that the processing of stored information is correct and appropriate to the circumstances.	Applications and programming interfaces (APIs) shall be designed, developed, deployed, and tested in accordance with leading industry standards (e.g., OWASP for web applications) and adhere to applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance obligations.
0	Fully document and implement all key- management processes and procedures for cryptographic keys used for encryption of cardholder data, including the following:	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for equipment maintenance ensuring continuity and availability of operations and support personnel.
0	All relevant legislative statutory, regulatory, contractual requirements and the organization's approach to meet these requirements shall be explicitly identified, documented and kept up to date for each information system and the organization.	Ingress and egress to secure areas shall be constrained and monitored by physical access control mechanisms to ensure that only authorized personnel are allowed access.
1	A formal policy shall be in place, and appropriate security measures shall be adopted to protect against the risks of using mobile computing and communication devices.	Mobile devices connecting to corporate networks, or storing and accessing company information, shall allow for remote software version/patch validation. All mobile devices shall have the latest available security-related patches installed upon general release by the device manufacturer or carrier and authorized IT personnel shall be able to perform these updates remotely.
0	Utilize application whitelisting technology on all assets to ensure that only authorized software executes and all unauthorized software is blocked from executing on assets.	The company shall have a documented application validation process to test for mobile device, operating system, and application compatibility issues.
0	Ensure that security policies and operational procedures for protecting systems against malware are documented, in use, and known to all affected parties.	Executive and line management shall take formal action to support information security through clearly-documented direction and commitment, and shall ensure the action has been assigned.
1	• How much can you scale up? Does the provider offer guarantees on maximum available resources within a minimum period?	Business-critical or customer (tenant) impacting (physical and virtual) application and system-system interface (API) designs and configurations, and infrastructure network and systems components, shall be designed, developed, and deployed in accordance with mutually agreed-upon service and capacity-level expectations, as well as IT governance and service management policies and procedures.
0	The organization prevents the unauthorized removal of maintenance equipment containing organizational information by:  (a)   Verifying that there is no organizational information contained on the equipment;   (b)   Sanitizing or destroying the equipment;  (c)   Retaining the equipment within the facility; or  (d)   Obtaining an exemption from [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles] explicitly authorizing removal of the equipment from the facility.	Providers shall review the risk management and governance processes of their partners so that practices are consistent and aligned to account for risks inherited from other members of that partner's cloud supply chain.
0	Establish an access control system(s) for systems components that restricts access based on a user’s need to know, and is set to “deny all” unless specifically allowed.	Policies and procedures shall be established for the secure disposal of equipment (by asset type) used outside the organization's premises. This shall include a wiping solution or destruction process that renders recovery of information impossible. The erasure shall consist of a full overwrite of the drive to ensure that the erased drive is released to inventory for reuse and deployment, or securely stored until it can be destroyed.
0	The organization:  a. Develops, documents, and disseminates to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]:    1. A security planning policy that addresses purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment, coordination among organizational entities, and compliance; and    2. Procedures to facilitate the implementation of the security planning policy and associated security planning controls; and  b. Reviews and updates the current:    1. Security planning policy [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and    2. Security planning procedures [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	All personnel shall be made aware of their roles and responsibilities for:  • Maintaining awareness and compliance with established policies and procedures and applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance obligations.  • Maintaining a safe and secure working environment
1	Establish, publish, maintain, and disseminate a security policy.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to triage security-related events and ensure timely and thorough incident management, as per established IT service management policies and procedures.
1	Where a follow-up action against a person or organization after an information security incident involves legal action (either civil or criminal), evidence shall be collected, retained, and presented in support of potential legal action in accordance with the rules for evidence in the relevant jurisdiction(s).	Proper forensic procedures, including chain of custody, are required for the presentation of evidence to support potential legal action subject to the relevant jurisdiction after an information security incident. Upon notification, customers and/or other external business partners impacted by a security breach shall be given the opportunity to participate as is legally permissible in the forensic investigation.
1	Uninstall or disable any unauthorized browser or email client plugins or add-on applications.	All structured and unstructured data shall be available to the customer and provided to them upon request in an industry-standard format (e.g., .doc, .xls, .pdf, logs, and flat files).
0	Access to operating systems shall be controlled by a secure log-on procedure.	A security awareness training program shall be established for all contractors, third-party users, and employees of the organization and mandated when appropriate. All individuals with access to organizational data shall receive appropriate awareness training and regular updates in organizational procedures, processes, and policies relating to their professional function relative to the organization.
0	Additional requirement for service providers only: If segmentation is used, confirm PCI DSS scope by performing penetration testing on segmentation controls at least every six months and after any changes to segmentation controls/methods.	Additional requirement for service providers only: If segmentation is used, confirm PCI DSS scope by performing penetration testing on segmentation controls at least every six months and after any changes to segmentation controls/methods.
0	A policy on the use of cryptographic controls for protection of information shall be developed and implemented.	Anti-malware awareness training, specific to mobile devices, shall be included in the provider's information security awareness training.
0	Ensure that local logging has been enabled on all systems and networking devices.	All data shall be designated with stewardship, with assigned responsibilities defined, documented, and communicated.
0	All relevant legislative statutory, regulatory, contractual requirements and the organization's approach to meet these requirements shall be explicitly identified, documented and kept up to date for each information system and the organization.	Authorization must be obtained prior to relocation or transfer of hardware, software, or data to an offsite premises.
1	Networks shall be managed and controlled to protect information in systems and applications.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for the use of encryption protocols for protection of sensitive data in storage (e.g., file servers, databases, and end-user workstations), data in use (memory), and data in transmission (e.g., system interfaces, over public networks, and electronic messaging) as per applicable legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations.
0	The organization produces, controls, and distributes asymmetric cryptographic keys using [Selection: NSA-approved key management technology and processes; approved PKI Class 3 certificates or prepositioned keying material; approved PKI Class 3 or Class 4 certificates and hardware security tokens that protect the user’s private key]. 	Ingress and egress to secure areas shall be constrained and monitored by physical access control mechanisms to ensure that only authorized personnel are allowed access.
0	To provide suitable training and awareness concerning PII protection for the personnel of the PII controller who will have access to PII.	To provide suitable training and awareness concerning PII protection for the personnel of the PII controller who will have access to PII.
1	The organization establishes terms and conditions, consistent with any trust relationships established with other organizations owning, operating, and/or maintaining external information systems, allowing authorized individuals to:  a. Access the information system from external information systems; and  b. Process, store, or transmit organization-controlled information using external information systems.	BYOD and/or company-owned devices are configured to require an automatic lockout screen, and the requirement shall be enforced through technical controls.
0	The organization incorporates the detection of unauthorized [Assignment: organization-defined security-relevant changes to the information system] into the organizational incident response capability.	Access to, and use of, audit tools that interact with the organization's information systems shall be appropriately segregated and access restricted to prevent inappropriate disclosure and tampering of log data.
0	The information system, for PKI-based authentication:  (a)   Validates certifications by constructing and verifying a certification path to an accepted trust anchor including checking certificate status information;  (b)   Enforces authorized access to the corresponding private key;  (c)   Maps the authenticated identity to the account of the individual or group; and  (d)   Implements a local cache of revocation data to support path discovery and validation in case of inability to access revocation information via the network.	Policies and procedures shall be established for the labeling, handling, and security of data and objects which contain data. Mechanisms for label inheritance shall be implemented for objects that act as aggregate containers for data.
1	Maintain an inventory of system components that are in scope for PCI DSS.	Supply chain agreements (e.g., SLAs) between providers and customers (tenants) shall incorporate at least the following mutually-agreed upon provisions and/or terms:  • Scope of business relationship and services offered (e.g., customer (tenant) data acquisition, exchange and usage, feature sets and functionality, personnel and infrastructure network and systems components for service delivery and support, roles and responsibilities of provider and customer (tenant) and any subcontracted or outsourced business relationships, physical geographical location of hosted services, and any known regulatory compliance considerations)  • Information security requirements, provider and customer (tenant) primary points of contact for the duration of the business relationship, and references to detailed supporting and relevant business processes and technical measures implemented to enable effectively governance, risk management, assurance and legal, statutory and regulatory compliance obligations by all impacted business relationships  • Notification and/or pre-authorization of any changes controlled by the provider with customer (tenant) impacts  • Timely notification of a security incident (or confirmed breach) to all customers (tenants) and other business relationships impacted (i.e., up- and down-stream impacted supply chain)  • Assessment and independent verification of compliance with agreement provisions and/or terms (e.g., industry-acceptable certification, attestation audit report, or equivalent forms of assurance) without posing an unacceptable business risk of exposure to the organization being assessed  • Expiration of the business relationship and treatment of customer (tenant) data impacted  • Customer (tenant) service-to-service application (API) and data interoperability and portability requirements for application development and information exchange, usage, and integrity persistence
1	• Does the client credential system allow for the separation of roles and responsibilities and for multiple domains (or a single key for multiple domains, roles and responsibilities)?	Provisioning user access (e.g., employees, contractors, customers (tenants), business partners, and/or supplier relationships) to data and organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) applications, infrastructure systems, and network components shall be authorized by the organization's management prior to access being granted and appropriately restricted as per established policies and procedures. Upon request, provider shall inform customer (tenant) of this user access, especially if customer (tenant) data is used as part the service and/or customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of control.
0	Agreements shall address the secure transfer of business information between the organization and external parties.	Roles and responsibilities for performing employment termination or change in employment procedures shall be assigned, documented, and communicated.
0	Enable processes to provide for timely forensic investigation in the event of a compromise to any hosted merchant or service provider.	Enable processes to provide for timely forensic investigation in the event of a compromise to any hosted merchant or service provider.
0	• Is the host firewall run with only the minimum ports necessary to support the services within the virtual instance?	To reduce the risks from environmental threats, hazards, and opportunities for unauthorized access, equipment shall be kept away from locations subject to high probability environmental risks and supplemented by redundant equipment located at a reasonable distance.
1	Privacy and protection of personally identifiable information shall be ensured as required in relevant legislation and regulation where applicable.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to ensure the development and/or acquisition of new data, physical or virtual applications, infrastructure network, and systems components, or any corporate, operations and/or data center facilities have been pre-authorized by the organization's business leadership or other accountable business role or function.
0	The organization:  a. Authorizes connections from the information system to other information systems through the use of Interconnection Security Agreements;  b. Documents, for each interconnection, the interface characteristics, security requirements, and the nature of the information communicated; and  c. Reviews and updates Interconnection Security Agreements [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	Assets must be classified in terms of business criticality, service-level expectations, and operational continuity requirements. A complete inventory of business-critical assets located at all sites and/or geographical locations and their usage over time shall be maintained and updated regularly, and assigned ownership by defined roles and responsibilities.
0	Compare all network device configuration against approved security configurations defined for each network device in use and alert when any deviations are discovered.	User access to diagnostic and configuration ports shall be restricted to authorized individuals and applications.
1	Never send unprotected PANs by end- user messaging technologies (for example, e- mail, instant messaging, SMS, chat, etc.).	Data related to electronic commerce (ecommerce) that traverses public networks shall be appropriately classified and protected from fraudulent activity, unauthorized disclosure, or modification in such a manner to prevent contract dispute and compromise of data.
0	The organization employs the principle of least privilege, allowing only authorized accesses for users (or processes acting on behalf of users) which are necessary to accomplish assigned tasks in accordance with organizational missions and business functions.	Policies and procedures shall be established for managing the risks associated with applying changes to:  • Business-critical or customer (tenant)-impacting (physical and virtual) applications and system-system interface (API) designs and configurations.  • Infrastructure network and systems components. Technical measures shall be implemented to provide assurance that all changes directly correspond to a registered change request, business-critical or customer (tenant), and/or authorization by, the customer (tenant) as per agreement (SLA) prior to deployment.
0	Back-out procedures.	Mobile devices connecting to corporate networks, or storing and accessing company information, shall allow for remote software version/patch validation. All mobile devices shall have the latest available security-related patches installed upon general release by the device manufacturer or carrier and authorized IT personnel shall be able to perform these updates remotely.
0	The information system uniquely identifies and authenticates organizational users (or processes acting on behalf of organizational users).	Roles and responsibilities for performing employment termination or change in employment procedures shall be assigned, documented, and communicated.
1	Maintain strict control over the internal or external distribution of any kind of media, including the following:	To reduce the risks from environmental threats, hazards, and opportunities for unauthorized access, equipment shall be kept away from locations subject to high probability environmental risks and supplemented by redundant equipment located at a reasonable distance.
0	The organization: (a) Establishes and administers privileged user accounts in accordance with a role-based access scheme that organizes allowed information system access and privileges into roles; (b) Monitors privileged role assignments; and (c) Takes [Assignment: organization-defined actions] when privileged role assignments are no longer appropriate.	All mobile devices permitted for use through the company BYOD program or a company-assigned mobile device shall allow for remote wipe by the company's corporate IT or shall have all company-provided data wiped by the company's corporate IT.
1	• Is the hardened virtual image protected from unauthorized access?	Internal corporate or customer (tenant) user account credentials shall be restricted as per the following, ensuring appropriate identity, entitlement, and access management and in accordance with established policies and procedures:  • Identity trust verification and service-to-service application (API) and information processing interoperability (e.g., SSO and Federation)  • Account credential lifecycle management from instantiation through revocation  • Account credential and/or identity store minimization or re-use when feasible  • Adherence to industry acceptable and/or regulatory compliant authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules (e.g., strong/multi-factor, expireable, non-shared authentication secrets)
0	Keep cardholder data storage to a minimum by implementing data retention and disposal policies, procedures and processes that include at least the following for all cardholder data (CHD) storage:  Limiting data storage amount and retention time to that which is required for legal, regulatory, and/or business requirements  Specific retention requirements for cardholder data  Processes for secure deletion of data when no longer needed  A quarterly process for identifying and securely deleting stored cardholder data that exceeds defined retention.PCI DSS Requirements	Roles and responsibilities of contractors, employees, and third-party users shall be documented as they relate to information assets and security.
0	Require multi-factor authentication for all user accounts, on all systems, whether managed on-site or by a thirdparty provider.	Require multi-factor authentication for all user accounts, on all systems, whether managed on-site or by a thirdparty provider.
1	The information system separates information flows logically or physically using [Assignment: organization-defined mechanisms and/or techniques] to accomplish [Assignment: organization- defined required separations by types of information].	Multi-tenant organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) applications, and infrastructure system and network components, shall be designed, developed, deployed, and configured such that provider and customer (tenant) user access is appropriately segmented from other tenant users, based on the following considerations:  • Established policies and procedures  • Isolation of business critical assets and/or sensitive user data, and sessions that mandate stronger internal controls and high levels of assurance  • Compliance with legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations
0	The information system protects the authenticity of communications sessions.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to inventory, document, and maintain data flows for data that is resident (permanently or temporarily) within the service's geographically distributed (physical and virtual) applications and infrastructure network and systems components and/or shared with other third parties to ascertain any regulatory, statutory, or supply chain agreement (SLA) compliance impact, and to address any other business risks associated with the data. Upon request, provider shall inform customer (tenant) of compliance impact and risk, especially if customer data is used as part of the services.
1	Log all URL requests from each of the organization’s systems, whether on-site or a mobile device, in order to identify potentially malicious activity and assist incident handlers with identifying potentially compromised systems.	Higher levels of assurance are required for protection, retention, and lifecycle management of audit logs, adhering to applicable legal, statutory or regulatory compliance obligations and providing unique user access accountability to detect potentially suspicious network behaviors and/or file integrity anomalies, and to support forensic investigative capabilities in the event of a security breach.
0	： To ensure protection of the organization's assets that is accessible by suppliers.	： To ensure protection of the organization's assets that is accessible by suppliers.
0	All relevant legislative statutory, regulatory, contractual requirements and the organization's approach to meet these requirements shall be explicitly identified, documented and kept up to date for each information system and the organization.	Production data shall not be replicated or used in non-production environments. Any use of customer data in non-production environments requires explicit, documented approval from all customers whose data is affected, and must comply with all legal and regulatory requirements for scrubbing of sensitive data elements.
1	Manage the network infrastructure across network connections that are separated from the business use of that network, relying on separate VLANs or, preferably, on entirely different physical connectivity for management sessions for network devices.	Network environments and virtual instances shall be designed and configured to restrict and monitor traffic between trusted and untrusted connections. These configurations shall be reviewed at least annually, and supported by a documented justification for use for all allowed services, protocols, ports, and by compensating controls.
0	The organization's approach to managing information security and its implementation (i.e. control objectives, controls, policies, processes and procedures for information security) shall be reviewed independently at planned intervals or when significant changes occur.	Applications and programming interfaces (APIs) shall be designed, developed, deployed, and tested in accordance with leading industry standards (e.g., OWASP for web applications) and adhere to applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance obligations.
1	The allocation and use of privileged access rights shall be restricted and controlled.	Higher levels of assurance are required for protection, retention, and lifecycle management of audit logs, adhering to applicable legal, statutory or regulatory compliance obligations and providing unique user access accountability to detect potentially suspicious network behaviors and/or file integrity anomalies, and to support forensic investigative capabilities in the event of a security breach.
0	Promptly back up audit trail files to a centralized log server or media that is difficult to alter.	Information system documentation (e.g., administrator and user guides, and architecture diagrams) shall be made available to authorized personnel to ensure the following:  • Configuring, installing, and operating the information system  • Effectively using the system’s security features
0	Networks shall be managed and controlled in order to protect the organization from threats and to maintain security for the systems and applications using the network, including information in transit.	Applications and programming interfaces (APIs) shall be designed, developed, deployed, and tested in accordance with leading industry standards (e.g., OWASP for web applications) and adhere to applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance obligations.
0	The information system:  (a)   Compares the internal information system clocks [Assignment: organization-defined frequency] with [Assignment: organization-defined authoritative time source]; and  (b)   Synchronizes the internal system clocks to the authoritative time source when the time difference is greater than [Assignment: organization-defined time period].	Data input and output integrity routines (i.e., reconciliation and edit checks) shall be implemented for application interfaces and databases to prevent manual or systematic processing errors, corruption of data, or misuse.
0	Test data shall be selected carefully, protected and controlled.	Network architecture diagrams shall clearly identify high-risk environments and data flows that may have legal compliance impacts. Technical measures shall be implemented and shall apply defense-in-depth techniques (e.g., deep packet analysis, traffic throttling, and black-holing) for detection and timely response to network-based attacks associated with anomalous ingress or egress traffic patterns (e.g., MAC spoofing and ARP poisoning attacks) and/or distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) attacks.
0	Physically secure all media.	Changes to mobile device operating systems, patch levels, and/or applications shall be managed through the company's change management processes.
0	Security perimeters (barriers such as walls, card controlled entry gates or manned reception desks) shall be used to protect areas that contain information and information assets.	Access to, and use of, audit tools that interact with the organization's information systems shall be appropriately segregated and access restricted to prevent inappropriate disclosure and tampering of log data.
0	Place application firewalls in front of any critical servers to verify and validate the traffic going to the server. Any unauthorized traffic should be blocked and logged.	The BYOD policy shall clarify the systems and servers allowed for use or access on a BYOD-enabled device.
0	Systems for managing passwords shall be interactive and shall ensure quality passwords.	Systems for managing passwords shall be interactive and shall ensure quality passwords.
0	Use appropriate facility entry controls to limit and monitor physical access to systems in the cardholder data environment.	Authorization must be obtained prior to relocation or transfer of hardware, software, or data to an offsite premises.
1	Physically secure all media.	Policies and procedures shall be established for the labeling, handling, and security of data and objects which contain data. Mechanisms for label inheritance shall be implemented for objects that act as aggregate containers for data.
1	Create the incident response plan to be implemented in the event of system breach. Ensure the plan addresses the following, at a minimum:  Roles, responsibilities, and communication and contact strategies in the event of a compromise including notification of the payment brands, at a minimum  Specific incident response procedures  Business recovery and continuity procedures  Data backup processes  Analysis of legal requirements for reporting compromises  Coverage and responses of all critical system components  Reference or inclusion of incident response procedures from the payment brands.	Workforce personnel and external business relationships shall be informed of their responsibilities and, if required, shall consent and/or contractually agree to report all information security events in a timely manner. Information security events shall be reported through predefined communications channels in a timely manner adhering to applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance obligations.
1	Access to information systems audit tools shall be protected to prevent any possible misuse or compromise.	Independent reviews and assessments shall be performed at least annually to ensure that the organization addresses nonconformities of established policies, standards, procedures, and compliance obligations.
0	The organization:  a. Assigns a risk designation to all organizational positions;  b. Establishes screening criteria for individuals filling those positions; and  c. Reviews and updates position risk designations [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	Data input and output integrity routines (i.e., reconciliation and edit checks) shall be implemented for application interfaces and databases to prevent manual or systematic processing errors, corruption of data, or misuse.
0	Records shall be protected from loss, destruction, falsification, unauthorized access and unauthorized release, in accordance with legislator^ regulatory, contractual and business requirements.	Policies and procedures shall be implemented to ensure the consistent review of service agreements (e.g., SLAs) between providers and customers (tenants) across the relevant supply chain (upstream/downstream). Reviews shall be performed at least annually and identify any non-conformance to established agreements. The reviews should result in actions to address service-level conflicts or inconsistencies resulting from disparate supplier relationships.
1	The organization responds to information spills by:  a. Identifying the specific information involved in the information system contamination;  b. Alerting [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles] of the information spill using a method of communication not associated with the spill;  c. Isolating the contaminated information system or system component;  d. Eradicating the information from the contaminated information system or component;  e. Identifying other information systems or system components that may have been subsequently contaminated; and  f. Performing other [Assignment: organization-defined actions]. Supplemental Guidance: Information spillage refers to instances where either classified or sensitive information is inadvertently placed on information systems that are not authorized to process such information. Such information spills often occur when information that is initially thought to be of lower sensitivity is transmitted to an information system and then is subsequently determined to be of higher sensitivity. At that point, corrective action is required. The nature of the organizational response is generally based upon the degree of sensitivity of the spilled information (e.g., security category or classification level), the security capabilities of the information system, the specific nature of contaminated storage media, and the access authorizations (e.g., security clearances) of individuals with authorized access to the contaminated system. The methods used to communicate information about the spill after the fact do not involve methods directly associated with the actual spill to minimize the risk of further spreading the contamination before such contamination is isolated and eradicated.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to triage security-related events and ensure timely and thorough incident management, as per established IT service management policies and procedures.
0	The information system:  a. Prevents further access to the system by initiating a session lock after [Assignment: organization-defined time period] of inactivity or upon receiving a request from a user; and  b. Retains the session lock until the user reestablishes access using established identification and authentication procedures.	Network environments and virtual instances shall be designed and configured to restrict and monitor traffic between trusted and untrusted connections. These configurations shall be reviewed at least annually, and supported by a documented justification for use for all allowed services, protocols, ports, and by compensating controls.
1	Privacy and protection of personally identifiable information shall be ensured as required in relevant legislation and regulation where applicable.	Data input and output integrity routines (i.e., reconciliation and edit checks) shall be implemented for application interfaces and databases to prevent manual or systematic processing errors, corruption of data, or misuse.
0	PCI DSS compliance roles and responsibilities must be specifically defined and formally assigned to one or more personnel, including at least the following:  Managing PCI DSS business-as-usual activities  Managing annual PCI DSS assessments  Managing continuous validation of PCI DSS requirements (for example: daily, weekly, quarterly, etc. as applicable per requirement)  Managing business-impact analysis to determine potential PCI DSS impacts for strategic business decisions	PCI DSS compliance roles and responsibilities must be specifically defined and formally assigned to one or more personnel, including at least the following:  Managing PCI DSS business-as-usual activities  Managing annual PCI DSS assessments  Managing continuous validation of PCI DSS requirements (for example: daily, weekly, quarterly, etc. as applicable per requirement)  Managing business-impact analysis to determine potential PCI DSS impacts for strategic business decisions
1	To lower the chance of spoofed or modified emails from valid domains, implement Domainbased Message Authentication, Reporting and Conformance (DMARC) policy and verification, starting by implementing the Sender Policy Framework (SPF) and the Domain Keys Identified Mail (DKIM) standards.	The mobile device policy shall require the BYOD user to perform backups of data, prohibit the usage of unapproved application stores, and require the use of anti-malware software (where supported).
1	The organization:  a. Develops, documents, and disseminates to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]:    1. A system maintenance policy that addresses purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment, coordination among organizational entities, and compliance; and    2. Procedures to facilitate the implementation of the system maintenance policy and associated system maintenance controls; and  b. Reviews and updates the current:    1. System maintenance policy [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and    2. System maintenance procedures [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	Policies and procedures shall be established and maintained in support of data security to include (confidentiality, integrity, and availability) across multiple system interfaces, jurisdictions, and business functions to prevent improper disclosure, alteration, or destruction.
1	Records shall be protected from loss, destruction, falsification, unauthorized access and unauthorized release, in accordance with legislator^ regulatory, contractual and business requirements.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to ensure the development and/or acquisition of new data, physical or virtual applications, infrastructure network, and systems components, or any corporate, operations and/or data center facilities have been pre-authorized by the organization's business leadership or other accountable business role or function.
0	The software inventory system should track the name, version, publisher, and install date for all software, including operating systems authorized by the organization.	Data center utilities services and environmental conditions (e.g., water, power, temperature and humidity controls, telecommunications, and internet connectivity) shall be secured, monitored, maintained, and tested for continual effectiveness at planned intervals to ensure protection from unauthorized interception or damage, and designed with automated fail-over or other redundancies in the event of planned or unplanned disruptions.
1	The organization:  (a)   Establishes a direct, cooperative relationship between its incident response capability and external providers of information system protection capability; and  (b)   Identifies organizational incident response team members to the external providers.	Points of contact for applicable regulation authorities, national and local law enforcement, and other legal jurisdictional authorities shall be maintained and regularly updated (e.g., change in impacted-scope and/or a change in any compliance obligation) to ensure direct compliance liaisons have been established and to be prepared for a forensic investigation requiring rapid engagement with law enforcement.
1	Segment the network based on the label or classification level of the information stored on the servers, locate all sensitive information on separated Virtual Local Area Networks (VLANs).	Multi-tenant organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) applications, and infrastructure system and network components, shall be designed, developed, deployed, and configured such that provider and customer (tenant) user access is appropriately segmented from other tenant users, based on the following considerations:  • Established policies and procedures  • Isolation of business critical assets and/or sensitive user data, and sessions that mandate stronger internal controls and high levels of assurance  • Compliance with legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations
0	Maintain strict control over the internal or external distribution of any kind of media, including the following:	Data center utilities services and environmental conditions (e.g., water, power, temperature and humidity controls, telecommunications, and internet connectivity) shall be secured, monitored, maintained, and tested for continual effectiveness at planned intervals to ensure protection from unauthorized interception or damage, and designed with automated fail-over or other redundancies in the event of planned or unplanned disruptions.
0	Appropriate procedures shall be implemented to ensure compliance with legislative, regulatory and contractual requirements related to intellectual property rights and use of proprietary software products.	BYOD and/or company-owned devices are configured to require an automatic lockout screen, and the requirement shall be enforced through technical controls.
1	Managers shall regularly review the compliance of information processing and procedures within their area of responsibility with the appropriate security policies, standards and any other security requirements.	The provider shall use open and published APIs to ensure support for interoperability between components and to facilitate migrating applications.
1	The organization obtains alternate telecommunications services to reduce the likelihood of sharing a single point of failure with primary telecommunications services. 	Protection measures shall be put into place to react to natural and man-made threats based upon a geographically-specific business impact assessment.
0	• Is the hardened virtual image protected from unauthorized access?	Pursuant to local laws, regulations, ethics, and contractual constraints, all employment candidates, contractors, and third parties shall be subject to background verification proportional to the data classification to be accessed, the business requirements, and acceptable risk.
1	o Does the provider maintain a documented method that details the impact of a disruption? o What are the RPO (recovery point objective) and RTO (recovery time objective) for services? Detail according to the criticality of the service. o Are information security activities appropriately addressed in the restoration process? o What are the lines of communication to end customers in the event of a disruption? o Are the roles and responsibilities of teams clearly identified when dealing with a disruption? 	A consistent unified framework for business continuity planning and plan development shall be established, documented, and adopted to ensure all business continuity plans are consistent in addressing priorities for testing, maintenance, and information security requirements.  Requirements for business continuity plans include the following:  • Defined purpose and scope, aligned with relevant dependencies  • Accessible to and understood by those who will use them  • Owned by a named person(s) who is responsible for their review, update, and approval  • Defined lines of communication, roles, and responsibilities  • Detailed recovery procedures, manual work-around, and reference information  • Method for plan invocation
1	The organization shall establish, document, implement and maintain processes, procedures and controls to ensure the required level of continuity for information security during an adverse situation.	There shall be a defined and documented method for determining the impact of any disruption to the organization (cloud provider, cloud consumer) that must incorporate the following:  • Identify critical products and services  • Identify all dependencies, including processes, applications, business partners, and third party service providers  • Understand threats to critical products and services  • Determine impacts resulting from planned or unplanned disruptions and how these vary over time  • Establish the maximum tolerable period for disruption  • Establish priorities for recovery  • Establish recovery time objectives for resumption of critical products and services within their maximum tolerable period of disruption  • Estimate the resources required for resumption
1	The information system automatically audits account creation, modification, enabling, disabling, and removal actions, and notifies [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles].	Access to, and use of, audit tools that interact with the organization's information systems shall be appropriately segregated and access restricted to prevent inappropriate disclosure and tampering of log data.
0	Background verification checks on all candidates for employment, contractors, and third-party users shall be carried out in accordance with relevant laws, regulations and ethics, and proportional to the business requirements, the classification of the information to be accessed, and the perceived risks.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to prevent the execution of unauthorized mobile code, defined as software transferred between systems over a trusted or untrusted network and executed on a local system without explicit installation or execution by the recipient, on organizationally-owned or managed user end-point devices (e.g., issued workstations, laptops, and mobile devices) and IT infrastructure network and systems components.
0	The information system:  a. Enforces a limit of [Assignment: organization-defined number] consecutive invalid logon attempts by a user during a [Assignment: organization-defined time period]; and  b. Automatically [Selection: locks the account/node for an [Assignment: organization-defined time period]; locks the account/node until released by an administrator; delays next logon prompt according to [Assignment: organization-defined delay algorithm]] when the maximum number of unsuccessful attempts is exceeded.	Provisioning user access (e.g., employees, contractors, customers (tenants), business partners, and/or supplier relationships) to data and organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) applications, infrastructure systems, and network components shall be authorized by the organization's management prior to access being granted and appropriately restricted as per established policies and procedures. Upon request, provider shall inform customer (tenant) of this user access, especially if customer (tenant) data is used as part the service and/or customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of control.
0	Information involved in online transactions shall be protected to prevent incomplete transmission, misrouting, unauthorized message alteration, unauthorized disclosure, unauthorized message duplication or replay.	A reliable and mutually agreed upon external time source shall be used to synchronize the system clocks of all relevant information processing systems to facilitate tracing and reconstitution of activity timelines.
0	Automatic equipment identification shall be used as a means to authenticate connections from specific locations and equipment.	Utility programs capable of potentially overriding system, object, network, virtual machine, and application controls shall be restricted.
1	Information involved in application service transactions shall be protected to prevent incomplete transmission, mis-routing, unauthorized message alteration, unauthorized disclosure, unauthorized message duplication or replay.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for the use of encryption protocols for protection of sensitive data in storage (e.g., file servers, databases, and end-user workstations), data in use (memory), and data in transmission (e.g., system interfaces, over public networks, and electronic messaging) as per applicable legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations.
1	Define access needs for each role, including:  System components and data resources that each role needs to access for their job function  Level of privilege required (for example, user, administrator, etc.) for accessing resources.	Provisioning user access (e.g., employees, contractors, customers (tenants), business partners, and/or supplier relationships) to data and organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) applications, infrastructure systems, and network components shall be authorized by the organization's management prior to access being granted and appropriately restricted as per established policies and procedures. Upon request, provider shall inform customer (tenant) of this user access, especially if customer (tenant) data is used as part the service and/or customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of control.
0	The organization establishes and manages cryptographic keys for required cryptography employed within the information system in accordance with [Assignment: organization-defined requirements for key generation, distribution, storage, access, and destruction].	Policies and procedures shall be established for the labeling, handling, and security of data and objects which contain data. Mechanisms for label inheritance shall be implemented for objects that act as aggregate containers for data.
1	Utilize centrally managed anti-malware software to continuously monitor and defend each of the organization’s workstations and servers.	A documented list of approved application stores has been defined as acceptable for mobile devices accessing or storing provider managed data.
1	• What methods do you use to prevent damage from a fire, flood, earthquake, etc? o In the event of a disaster, what additional security measures are put in place to protect physical access? o Both at the primary as well as at the secondary sites? 	Physical protection against damage from natural causes and disasters, as well as deliberate attacks, including fire, flood, atmospheric electrical discharge, solar induced geomagnetic storm, wind, earthquake, tsunami, explosion, nuclear accident, volcanic activity, biological hazard, civil unrest, mudslide, tectonic activity, and other forms of natural or man-made disaster shall be anticipated, designed, and have countermeasures applied.
0	Asset owners shall review users' access rights at regular intervals.	Keys must have identifiable owners (binding keys to identities) and there shall be key management policies.
0	Modifications to software packages shall be discouraged, limited to necessary changes and all changes shall be strictly controlled.	Data and objects containing data shall be assigned a classification by the data owner based on data type, value, sensitivity, and criticality to the organization.
1	All relevant legislative statutory, regulatory, contractual requirements and the organization's approach to meet these requirements shall be explicitly identified, documented and kept up to date for each information system and the organization.	Access to all hypervisor management functions or administrative consoles for systems hosting virtualized systems shall be restricted to personnel based upon the principle of least privilege and supported through technical controls (e.g., two-factor authentication, audit trails, IP address filtering, firewalls, and TLS encapsulated communications to the administrative consoles).
0	The organization establishes terms and conditions, consistent with any trust relationships established with other organizations owning, operating, and/or maintaining external information systems, allowing authorized individuals to:  a. Access the information system from external information systems; and  b. Process, store, or transmit organization-controlled information using external information systems.	Access to the organization's own developed applications, program, or object source code, or any other form of intellectual property (IP), and use of proprietary software shall be appropriately restricted following the rule of least privilege based on job function as per established user access policies and procedures.
1	Establish an access control system(s) for systems components that restricts access based on a user’s need to know, and is set to “deny all” unless specifically allowed.	Policies and procedures shall be established and maintained in support of data security to include (confidentiality, integrity, and availability) across multiple system interfaces, jurisdictions, and business functions to prevent improper disclosure, alteration, or destruction.
1	Maintain standard, documented security configuration standards for all authorized network devices.	Network environments and virtual instances shall be designed and configured to restrict and monitor traffic between trusted and untrusted connections. These configurations shall be reviewed at least annually, and supported by a documented justification for use for all allowed services, protocols, ports, and by compensating controls.
0	Never send unprotected PANs by end- user messaging technologies (for example, e- mail, instant messaging, SMS, chat, etc.).	Proper forensic procedures, including chain of custody, are required for the presentation of evidence to support potential legal action subject to the relevant jurisdiction after an information security incident. Upon notification, customers and/or other external business partners impacted by a security breach shall be given the opportunity to participate as is legally permissible in the forensic investigation.
0	Implement a PCI DSS compliance program	Audit plans shall be developed and maintained to address business process disruptions. Auditing plans shall focus on reviewing the effectiveness of the implementation of security operations. All audit activities must be agreed upon prior to executing any audits.
0	To maintain the security of information transferred within an organization and with any external entity.	To maintain the security of information transferred within an organization and with any external entity.
1	Visitors are authorized before entering, and escorted at all times within, areas where cardholder data is processed or maintained.	Physical access to information assets and functions by users and support personnel shall be restricted.
0	Employees and contractors using the organization's information systems and services shall be required to note and report any observed or suspected information security weaknesses in systems or services.	Employees and contractors using the organization's information systems and services shall be required to note and report any observed or suspected information security weaknesses in systems or services.
0	Appropriate contacts with relevant authorities shall be maintained.	Policies and procedures shall be implemented to ensure the consistent review of service agreements (e.g., SLAs) between providers and customers (tenants) across the relevant supply chain (upstream/downstream). Reviews shall be performed at least annually and identify any non-conformance to established agreements. The reviews should result in actions to address service-level conflicts or inconsistencies resulting from disparate supplier relationships.
1	Limit access to system components and cardholder data to only those individuals whose job requires such access.	Provisioning user access (e.g., employees, contractors, customers (tenants), business partners, and/or supplier relationships) to data and organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) applications, infrastructure systems, and network components shall be authorized by the organization's management prior to access being granted and appropriately restricted as per established policies and procedures. Upon request, provider shall inform customer (tenant) of this user access, especially if customer (tenant) data is used as part the service and/or customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of control.
1	Deploy network-based Intrusion Prevention Systems (IPS) to block malicious network traffic at each of the organization’s network boundaries.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to protect wireless network environments, including the following:  • Perimeter firewalls implemented and configured to restrict unauthorized traffic  • Security settings enabled with strong encryption for authentication and transmission, replacing vendor default settings (e.g., encryption keys, passwords, and SNMP community strings)  • User access to wireless network devices restricted to authorized personnel  • The capability to detect the presence of unauthorized (rogue) wireless network devices for a timely disconnect from the network
1	Time settings are received from industry-accepted time sources.	A reliable and mutually agreed upon external time source shall be used to synchronize the system clocks of all relevant information processing systems to facilitate tracing and reconstitution of activity timelines.
0	Acceptable uses of the technology	An Information Security Management Program (ISMP) shall be developed, documented, approved, and implemented that includes administrative, technical, and physical safeguards to protect assets and data from loss, misuse, unauthorized access, disclosure, alteration, and destruction. The security program shall include, but not be limited to, the following areas insofar as they relate to the characteristics of the business:  • Risk management  • Security policy  • Organization of information security  • Asset management  • Human resources security  • Physical and environmental security  • Communications and operations management  • Access control  • Information systems acquisition, development, and maintenance
0	Establish, document, and distribute security incident response and escalation procedures to ensure timely and effective handling of all situations.	Access to the organization's own developed applications, program, or object source code, or any other form of intellectual property (IP), and use of proprietary software shall be appropriately restricted following the rule of least privilege based on job function as per established user access policies and procedures.
0	Risks shall be continually evaluated and assessed.	Ingress and egress points such as service areas and other points where unauthorized personnel may enter the premises shall be monitored, controlled and, if possible, isolated from data storage and processing facilities to prevent unauthorized data corruption, compromise, and loss.
1	Utilize centrally managed anti-malware software to continuously monitor and defend each of the organization’s workstations and servers.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to prevent the execution of malware on organizationally-owned or managed user end-point devices (i.e., issued workstations, laptops, and mobile devices) and IT infrastructure network and systems components.
0	The organization:  (a)   Authorizes the execution of privileged commands and access to security-relevant information via remote access only for [Assignment: organization-defined needs]; and  (b)   Documents the rationale for such access in the security plan for the information system.	Aligned with the enterprise-wide framework, formal risk assessments shall be performed at least annually or at planned intervals, (and in conjunction with any changes to information systems) to determine the likelihood and impact of all identified risks using qualitative and quantitative methods. The likelihood and impact associated with inherent and residual risk shall be determined independently, considering all risk categories (e.g., audit results, threat and vulnerability analysis, and regulatory compliance).
0	Networks shall be managed and controlled in order to protect the organization from threats and to maintain security for the systems and applications using the network, including information in transit.	Aligned with the enterprise-wide framework, formal risk assessments shall be performed at least annually or at planned intervals, (and in conjunction with any changes to information systems) to determine the likelihood and impact of all identified risks using qualitative and quantitative methods. The likelihood and impact associated with inherent and residual risk shall be determined independently, considering all risk categories (e.g., audit results, threat and vulnerability analysis, and regulatory compliance).
1	Protect audit trail files from unauthorized modifications.	Higher levels of assurance are required for protection, retention, and lifecycle management of audit logs, adhering to applicable legal, statutory or regulatory compliance obligations and providing unique user access accountability to detect potentially suspicious network behaviors and/or file integrity anomalies, and to support forensic investigative capabilities in the event of a security breach.
1	Ensure that all users with administrative account access use a dedicated or secondary account for elevated activities. This account should only be used for administrative activities and not internet browsing, email, or similar activities.	Provisioning user access (e.g., employees, contractors, customers (tenants), business partners, and/or supplier relationships) to data and organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) applications, infrastructure systems, and network components shall be authorized by the organization's management prior to access being granted and appropriately restricted as per established policies and procedures. Upon request, provider shall inform customer (tenant) of this user access, especially if customer (tenant) data is used as part the service and/or customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of control.
0	The information system generates audit records containing information that establishes what type of event occurred, when the event occurred, where the event occurred, the source of the event, the outcome of the event, and the identity of any individuals or subjects associated with the event.	Network architecture diagrams shall clearly identify high-risk environments and data flows that may have legal compliance impacts. Technical measures shall be implemented and shall apply defense-in-depth techniques (e.g., deep packet analysis, traffic throttling, and black-holing) for detection and timely response to network-based attacks associated with anomalous ingress or egress traffic patterns (e.g., MAC spoofing and ARP poisoning attacks) and/or distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) attacks.
0	Manage the network infrastructure across network connections that are separated from the business use of that network, relying on separate VLANs or, preferably, on entirely different physical connectivity for management sessions for network devices.	Policies and procedures shall be established for the management of cryptographic keys in the service's cryptosystem (e.g., lifecycle management from key generation to revocation and replacement, public key infrastructure, cryptographic protocol design and algorithms used, access controls in place for secure key generation, and exchange and storage including segregation of keys used for encrypted data or sessions). Upon request, provider shall inform the customer (tenant) of changes within the cryptosystem, especially if the customer (tenant) data is used as part of the service, and/or the customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of the control.
1	Establish and implement firewall and router configuration standards that include the following:	Network environments and virtual instances shall be designed and configured to restrict and monitor traffic between trusted and untrusted connections. These configurations shall be reviewed at least annually, and supported by a documented justification for use for all allowed services, protocols, ports, and by compensating controls.
0	Implement automated audit trails for all system components to reconstruct the following events:	Implement automated audit trails for all system components to reconstruct the following events:
1	Incorporate multi-factor authentication for all non-console access into the CDE for personnel with administrative access.	External business partners shall adhere to the same policies and procedures for change management, release, and testing as internal developers within the organization (e.g., ITIL service management processes).
0	Review logs and security events for all system components to identify anomalies or suspicious activity.	Roles and responsibilities of contractors, employees, and third-party users shall be documented as they relate to information assets and security.
0	The organization requires the developer of the information system, system component, or information system service to provide design and implementation information for the security controls to be employed that includes: [Selection (one or more): security-relevant external system interfaces; high-level design; low-level design; source code or hardware schematics; [Assignment: organization-defined design/implementation information]] at [Assignment: organization-defined level of detail].	Data center utilities services and environmental conditions (e.g., water, power, temperature and humidity controls, telecommunications, and internet connectivity) shall be secured, monitored, maintained, and tested for continual effectiveness at planned intervals to ensure protection from unauthorized interception or damage, and designed with automated fail-over or other redundancies in the event of planned or unplanned disruptions.
0	Encrypt or hash with a salt all authentication credentials when stored.	Encrypt or hash with a salt all authentication credentials when stored.
0	• Are procedures in place in the event of a key compromise? For example, key revocation lists.	Changes to mobile device operating systems, patch levels, and/or applications shall be managed through the company's change management processes.
0	Implement a process to immediately detect and alert on critical security control failures. Examples of critical security controls include, but are not limited to:  Firewalls  IDS/IPS  FIM  Anti-virus  Physical access controls  Logical access controls  Audit logging mechanisms  Segmentation controls (if used)	Implement a process to immediately detect and alert on critical security control failures. Examples of critical security controls include, but are not limited to:  Firewalls  IDS/IPS  FIM  Anti-virus  Physical access controls  Logical access controls  Audit logging mechanisms  Segmentation controls (if used)
1	Assign access based on individual personnel’s job classification and function.	User access to diagnostic and configuration ports shall be restricted to authorized individuals and applications.
0	The information system protects against or limits the effects of the following types of denial of service attacks: [Assignment: organization-defined types of denial of service attacks or reference to source for such information] by employing [Assignment: organization-defined security safeguards].	The information system protects against or limits the effects of the following types of denial of service attacks: [Assignment: organization-defined types of denial of service attacks or reference to source for such information] by employing [Assignment: organization-defined security safeguards].
0	Deploy anti-virus software on all systems commonly affected by malicious software (particularly personal computers and servers).	Network environments and virtual instances shall be designed and configured to restrict and monitor traffic between trusted and untrusted connections. These configurations shall be reviewed at least annually, and supported by a documented justification for use for all allowed services, protocols, ports, and by compensating controls.
1	Install personal firewall software or equivalent functionality on any portable computing devices (including company and/or employee-owned) that connect to the Internet when outside the network (for example, laptops used by employees), and which are also used to access the CDE. Firewall (or equivalent) configurations include:  Specific configuration settings are defined.  Personal firewall (or equivalent functionality) is actively running.  Personal firewall (or equivalent functionality) is not alterable by users of the portable computing devices.	Multi-tenant organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) applications, and infrastructure system and network components, shall be designed, developed, deployed, and configured such that provider and customer (tenant) user access is appropriately segmented from other tenant users, based on the following considerations:  • Established policies and procedures  • Isolation of business critical assets and/or sensitive user data, and sessions that mandate stronger internal controls and high levels of assurance  • Compliance with legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations
0	A management authorization process for new information assets (e.g. systems and applications) (see Other Information), and facilities (e.g. data centers or offices where covered information is to be processed) shall be defined and implemented.	A management authorization process for new information assets (e.g. systems and applications) (see Other Information), and facilities (e.g. data centers or offices where covered information is to be processed) shall be defined and implemented.
0	Information systems shall be regularly reviewed for compliance with the organization's information security policies and standards.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for appropriate IT governance and service management to ensure appropriate planning, delivery, and support of the organization's IT capabilities supporting business functions, workforce, and/or customers based on industry acceptable standards (i.e., ITIL v4 and COBIT 5). Additionally, policies and procedures shall include defined roles and responsibilities supported by regular workforce training.
1	When operating platforms are changed, business critical applications shall be reviewed and tested to ensure there is no adverse impact on organizational operations or security.	Anti-malware awareness training, specific to mobile devices, shall be included in the provider's information security awareness training.
0	Protect devices that capture payment card data via direct physical interaction with the card from tampering and substitution.	A formal disciplinary or sanction policy shall be established for employees who have violated security policies and procedures. Employees shall be made aware of what action might be taken in the event of a violation, and disciplinary measures must be stated in the policies and procedures.
0	Use either video cameras or access control mechanisms (or both) to monitor individual physical access to sensitive areas. Review collected data and correlate with other entries. Store for at least three months, unless otherwise restricted by law.	Risks shall be mitigated to an acceptable level. Acceptance levels based on risk criteria shall be established and documented in accordance with reasonable resolution time frames and stakeholder approval.
1	Information systems shall be regularly reviewed for compliance with the organization's information security policies and standards.	The BYOD policy and supporting awareness training clearly states the approved applications, application stores, and application extensions and plugins that may be used for BYOD usage.
1	Establish an access control system(s) for systems components that restricts access based on a user’s need to know, and is set to “deny all” unless specifically allowed.	Access to, and use of, audit tools that interact with the organization's information systems shall be appropriately segregated and access restricted to prevent inappropriate disclosure and tampering of log data.
0	Utilize centrally managed anti-malware software to continuously monitor and defend each of the organization’s workstations and servers.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to prevent the execution of unauthorized mobile code, defined as software transferred between systems over a trusted or untrusted network and executed on a local system without explicit installation or execution by the recipient, on organizationally-owned or managed user end-point devices (e.g., issued workstations, laptops, and mobile devices) and IT infrastructure network and systems components.
0	The organization employs automated mechanisms to compare the results of vulnerability scans over time to determine trends in information system vulnerabilities.	Providers shall assure reasonable information security across their information supply chain by performing an annual review. The review shall include all partners/third party-providers upon which their information supply chain depends on.
1	The organization:  a. Employs a formal sanctions process for individuals failing to comply with established information security policies and procedures; and  b. Notifies [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles] within [Assignment: organization-defined time period] when a formal employee sanctions process is initiated, identifying the individual sanctioned and the reason for the sanction.	A formal disciplinary or sanction policy shall be established for employees who have violated security policies and procedures. Employees shall be made aware of what action might be taken in the event of a violation, and disciplinary measures must be stated in the policies and procedures.
1	Inactive sessions shall shut down after a defined period of inactivity.	Policies and procedures shall be established and maintained in support of data security to include (confidentiality, integrity, and availability) across multiple system interfaces, jurisdictions, and business functions to prevent improper disclosure, alteration, or destruction.
1	Insecure cryptographic storage	Policies and procedures shall be established for the management of cryptographic keys in the service's cryptosystem (e.g., lifecycle management from key generation to revocation and replacement, public key infrastructure, cryptographic protocol design and algorithms used, access controls in place for secure key generation, and exchange and storage including segregation of keys used for encrypted data or sessions). Upon request, provider shall inform the customer (tenant) of changes within the cryptosystem, especially if the customer (tenant) data is used as part of the service, and/or the customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of the control.
1	Ensure that local logging has been enabled on all systems and networking devices.	Higher levels of assurance are required for protection, retention, and lifecycle management of audit logs, adhering to applicable legal, statutory or regulatory compliance obligations and providing unique user access accountability to detect potentially suspicious network behaviors and/or file integrity anomalies, and to support forensic investigative capabilities in the event of a security breach.
1	Establish, publish, maintain, and disseminate a security policy.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for appropriate IT governance and service management to ensure appropriate planning, delivery, and support of the organization's IT capabilities supporting business functions, workforce, and/or customers based on industry acceptable standards (i.e., ITIL v4 and COBIT 5). Additionally, policies and procedures shall include defined roles and responsibilities supported by regular workforce training.
0	The organization implements [Assignment: organization-defined procedures] to ensure that organizational personnel impacted by information spills can continue to carry out assigned tasks while contaminated systems are undergoing corrective actions.	The organization implements [Assignment: organization-defined procedures] to ensure that organizational personnel impacted by information spills can continue to carry out assigned tasks while contaminated systems are undergoing corrective actions.
1	Establish and implement firewall and router configuration standards that include the following:	Multi-tenant organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) applications, and infrastructure system and network components, shall be designed, developed, deployed, and configured such that provider and customer (tenant) user access is appropriately segmented from other tenant users, based on the following considerations:  • Established policies and procedures  • Isolation of business critical assets and/or sensitive user data, and sessions that mandate stronger internal controls and high levels of assurance  • Compliance with legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations
1	The organization:  a. Develops, documents, and disseminates to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]:    1. A security awareness and training policy that addresses purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment, coordination among organizational entities, and compliance; and    2.  Procedures to facilitate the implementation of the security awareness and training policy and associated security awareness and training controls; and  b. Reviews and updates the current:    1. Security awareness and training policy [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and    2.  Security awareness and training procedures [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	Anti-malware awareness training, specific to mobile devices, shall be included in the provider's information security awareness training.
0	The information system, for password-based authentication:  (a)   Enforces minimum password complexity of [Assignment: organization-defined requirements for case sensitivity, number of characters, mix of upper-case letters, lower-case letters, numbers, and special characters, including minimum requirements for each type];  (b)   Enforces at least the following number of changed characters when new passwords are created: [Assignment: organization-defined number];  (c)   Stores and transmits only encrypted representations of passwords;  (d)   Enforces password minimum and maximum lifetime restrictions of [Assignment: organization- defined numbers for lifetime minimum, lifetime maximum];  (e)   Prohibits password reuse for [Assignment: organization-defined number] generations; and  (f) Allows the use of a temporary password for system logons with an immediate change to a permanent password.	A reliable and mutually agreed upon external time source shall be used to synchronize the system clocks of all relevant information processing systems to facilitate tracing and reconstitution of activity timelines.
0	Control and manage logical access to the cardholder data environment	Platform and data-appropriate encryption (e.g., AES-256) in open/validated formats and standard algorithms shall be required. Keys shall not be stored in the cloud (i.e., at the cloud provider in question), but maintained by the cloud consumer or trusted key management provider. Key management and key usage shall be separated duties.
0	The information system protects the [Selection (one or more): confidentiality; integrity] of transmitted information.	The BYOD policy shall define the device and eligibility requirements to allow for BYOD usage.
0	Additional requirement for service providers only: Executive management shall establish responsibility for the protection of cardholder data and a PCI DSS compliance program to include:  Overall accountability for maintaining PCI DSS compliance  Defining a charter for a PCI DSS compliance program and communication to executive management	Utility programs capable of potentially overriding system, object, network, virtual machine, and application controls shall be restricted.
0	To avoid breaches of legal, statutory, regulatory or contractual obligations related to information security and of any security requirements.	To avoid breaches of legal, statutory, regulatory or contractual obligations related to information security and of any security requirements.
0	Maintain strict control over the internal or external distribution of any kind of media, including the following:	Workforce personnel and external business relationships shall be informed of their responsibilities and, if required, shall consent and/or contractually agree to report all information security events in a timely manner. Information security events shall be reported through predefined communications channels in a timely manner adhering to applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance obligations.
0	The organization:  a. Schedules, performs, documents, and reviews records of maintenance and repairs on information system components in accordance with manufacturer or vendor specifications and/or organizational requirements;  b. Approves and monitors all maintenance activities, whether performed on site or remotely and whether the equipment is serviced on site or removed to another location;  c. Requires that [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles] explicitly approve the removal of the information system or system components from organizational facilities for off-site maintenance or repairs;  d. Sanitizes equipment to remove all information from associated media prior to removal from organizational facilities for off-site maintenance or repairs;  e. Checks all potentially impacted security controls to verify that the controls are still functioning properly following maintenance or repair actions; and  f. Includes [Assignment: organization-defined maintenance-related information] in organizational maintenance records.	The availability, quality, and adequate capacity and resources shall be planned, prepared, and measured to deliver the required system performance in accordance with legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations. Projections of future capacity requirements shall be made to mitigate the risk of system overload.
0	To retain PII no longer than necessary to fulfill the stated purpose(s) or to abide by applicable laws.	Risks shall be mitigated to an acceptable level. Acceptance levels based on risk criteria shall be established and documented in accordance with reasonable resolution time frames and stakeholder approval.
0	Information systems shall be regularly reviewed for compliance with the organization's information security policies and standards.	A consistent unified framework for business continuity planning and plan development shall be established, documented, and adopted to ensure all business continuity plans are consistent in addressing priorities for testing, maintenance, and information security requirements.  Requirements for business continuity plans include the following:  • Defined purpose and scope, aligned with relevant dependencies  • Accessible to and understood by those who will use them  • Owned by a named person(s) who is responsible for their review, update, and approval  • Defined lines of communication, roles, and responsibilities  • Detailed recovery procedures, manual work-around, and reference information  • Method for plan invocation
1	The organization employs assessors or assessment teams with [Assignment: organization-defined level of independence] to conduct security control assessments.	Independent reviews and assessments shall be performed at least annually to ensure that the organization addresses nonconformities of established policies, standards, procedures, and compliance obligations.
0	Visitors are authorized before entering, and escorted at all times within, areas where cardholder data is processed or maintained.	All data shall be designated with stewardship, with assigned responsibilities defined, documented, and communicated.
0	• Are there processes for testing that data can be exported to another cloud provider – should the client wish to change provider, for example?	Data and objects containing data shall be assigned a classification by the data owner based on data type, value, sensitivity, and criticality to the organization.
0	Information systems shall be regularly reviewed for compliance with the organization's information security policies and standards.	Executive and line management shall take formal action to support information security through clearly-documented direction and commitment, and shall ensure the action has been assigned.
0	When operating platforms are changed, business critical applications shall be reviewed and tested to ensure there is no adverse impact on organizational operations or security.	Network architecture diagrams shall clearly identify high-risk environments and data flows that may have legal compliance impacts. Technical measures shall be implemented and shall apply defense-in-depth techniques (e.g., deep packet analysis, traffic throttling, and black-holing) for detection and timely response to network-based attacks associated with anomalous ingress or egress traffic patterns (e.g., MAC spoofing and ARP poisoning attacks) and/or distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) attacks.
1	Monitor all traffic leaving the organization and detect any unauthorized use of encryption.	Higher levels of assurance are required for protection, retention, and lifecycle management of audit logs, adhering to applicable legal, statutory or regulatory compliance obligations and providing unique user access accountability to detect potentially suspicious network behaviors and/or file integrity anomalies, and to support forensic investigative capabilities in the event of a security breach.
1	• What time source is used to synchronise systems and provide accurate audit log time stamping?	A reliable and mutually agreed upon external time source shall be used to synchronize the system clocks of all relevant information processing systems to facilitate tracing and reconstitution of activity timelines.
1	When operating platforms are changed, business critical applications shall be reviewed and tested to ensure there is no adverse impact on organizational operations or security.	An inventory of all mobile devices used to store and access company data shall be kept and maintained. All changes to the status of these devices (i.e., operating system and patch levels, lost or decommissioned status, and to whom the device is assigned or approved for usage (BYOD)) will be included for each device in the inventory.
0	The information system implements cryptographic mechanisms to protect the confidentiality and integrity of remote access sessions.	Assets must be classified in terms of business criticality, service-level expectations, and operational continuity requirements. A complete inventory of business-critical assets located at all sites and/or geographical locations and their usage over time shall be maintained and updated regularly, and assigned ownership by defined roles and responsibilities.
0	Do not store the full contents of any track (from the magnetic stripe located on the back of a card, equivalent data contained on a chip, or elsewhere) after authorization. This data is alternatively called full track, track, track 1, track 2, and magnetic-stripe data.	Providers shall inspect, account for, and work with their cloud supply-chain partners to correct data quality errors and associated risks. Providers shall design and implement controls to mitigate and contain data security risks through proper separation of duties, role-based access, and least-privilege access for all personnel within their supply chain.
0	Compare all network device configuration against approved security configurations defined for each network device in use and alert when any deviations are discovered.	The BYOD policy and supporting awareness training clearly states the approved applications, application stores, and application extensions and plugins that may be used for BYOD usage.
0	• Does the client credential system allow for the separation of roles and responsibilities and for multiple domains (or a single key for multiple domains, roles and responsibilities)?	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to manage business risks associated with permitting mobile device access to corporate resources and may require the implementation of higher assurance compensating controls and acceptable-use policies and procedures (e.g., mandated security training, stronger identity, entitlement and access controls, and device monitoring).
0	When operating platforms are changed, business critical applications shall be reviewed and tested to ensure there is no adverse impact on organizational operations or security.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for the use of encryption protocols for protection of sensitive data in storage (e.g., file servers, databases, and end-user workstations), data in use (memory), and data in transmission (e.g., system interfaces, over public networks, and electronic messaging) as per applicable legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations.
0	To establish a privacy impact assessment process and to perform a privacy impact assessment as necessary.	The company shall have a documented application validation process to test for mobile device, operating system, and application compatibility issues.
0	The information system automatically updates spam protection mechanisms. 	Network environments and virtual instances shall be designed and configured to restrict and monitor traffic between trusted and untrusted connections. These configurations shall be reviewed at least annually, and supported by a documented justification for use for all allowed services, protocols, ports, and by compensating controls.
1	The organization defines, documents, approves, and enforces physical and logical access restrictions associated with changes to the information system.	User access to diagnostic and configuration ports shall be restricted to authorized individuals and applications.
1	• Is the SaaS access control fine grained and can it be customised to your organisations policy?	User access policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for ensuring appropriate identity, entitlement, and access management for all internal corporate and customer (tenant) users with access to data and organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) application interfaces and infrastructure network and systems components. These policies, procedures, processes, and measures must incorporate the following:  • Procedures, supporting roles, and responsibilities for provisioning and de-provisioning user account entitlements following the rule of least privilege based on job function (e.g., internal employee and contingent staff personnel changes, customer-controlled access, suppliers' business relationships, or other third-party business relationships)  • Business case considerations for higher levels of assurance and multi-factor authentication secrets (e.g., management interfaces, key generation, remote access, segregation of duties, emergency access, large-scale provisioning or geographically-distributed deployments, and personnel redundancy for critical systems)  • Access segmentation to sessions and data in multi-tenant architectures by any third party (e.g., provider and/or other customer (tenant))  • Identity trust verification and service-to-service application (API) and information processing interoperability (e.g., SSO and federation)  • Account credential lifecycle management from instantiation through revocation  • Account credential and/or identity store minimization or re-use when feasible  • Authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules for access to data and sessions (e.g., encryption and strong/multi-factor, expireable, non-shared authentication secrets)  • Permissions and supporting capabilities for customer (tenant) controls over authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules for access to data and sessions  • Adherence to applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance requirements
1	Establish an access control system(s) for systems components that restricts access based on a user’s need to know, and is set to “deny all” unless specifically allowed.	Access to the organization's own developed applications, program, or object source code, or any other form of intellectual property (IP), and use of proprietary software shall be appropriately restricted following the rule of least privilege based on job function as per established user access policies and procedures.
1	The organization tracks and documents information system security incidents.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to triage security-related events and ensure timely and thorough incident management, as per established IT service management policies and procedures.
1	Ensure that only authorized scripting languages are able to run in all web browsers and email clients.	The provider shall use open and published APIs to ensure support for interoperability between components and to facilitate migrating applications.
0	• Is the virtual network infrastructure used by cloud providers (in PVLANs and VLAN tagging 802.1q architecture) secured to vendor and/or best practice specific standards (e.g., are MAC spoofing, ARP poisoning attacks, etc, prevented via a specific security configuration)?	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting processes and technical measures implemented, for timely detection of vulnerabilities within organizationally-owned or managed applications, infrastructure network and system components (e.g., network vulnerability assessment, penetration testing) to ensure the efficiency of implemented security controls. A risk-based model for prioritizing remediation of identified vulnerabilities shall be used. Changes shall be managed through a change management process for all vendor-supplied patches, configuration changes, or changes to the organization's internally developed software. Upon request, the provider informs customer (tenant) of policies and procedures and identified weaknesses especially if customer (tenant) data is used as part the service and/or customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of control.
0	• Detail your change control procedure and policy. This should also include the process used to re-assess risks as a result of changes and clarify whether the outputs are available to end customers.	Multi-tenant organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) applications, and infrastructure system and network components, shall be designed, developed, deployed, and configured such that provider and customer (tenant) user access is appropriately segmented from other tenant users, based on the following considerations:  • Established policies and procedures  • Isolation of business critical assets and/or sensitive user data, and sessions that mandate stronger internal controls and high levels of assurance  • Compliance with legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations
0	Secure audit trails so they cannot be altered.	All personnel shall be made aware of their roles and responsibilities for:  • Maintaining awareness and compliance with established policies and procedures and applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance obligations.  • Maintaining a safe and secure working environment
0	Store secret and private keys used to encrypt/decrypt cardholder data in one (or more) of the following forms at all times:  Encrypted with a key-encrypting key that is at least as strong as the data- encrypting key, and that is stored separately from the data-encrypting key  Within a secure cryptographic device (such as a hardware (host) security module (HSM) or PTS-approved point-of-interaction device)  As at least two full-length key components or key shares, in accordance with an industry- accepted method	The mobile device policy shall prohibit the circumvention of built-in security controls on mobile devices (e.g., jailbreaking or rooting) and shall enforce the prohibition through detective and preventative controls on the device or through a centralized device management system (e.g., mobile device management).
0	Establish an access control system(s) for systems components that restricts access based on a user’s need to know, and is set to “deny all” unless specifically allowed.	Providers shall review the risk management and governance processes of their partners so that practices are consistent and aligned to account for risks inherited from other members of that partner's cloud supply chain.
0	• Are any high-privilege roles allocated to the same person? Does this allocation break the segregation of duties or least privilege rules?	A formal disciplinary or sanction policy shall be established for employees who have violated security policies and procedures. Employees shall be made aware of what action might be taken in the event of a violation, and disciplinary measures must be stated in the policies and procedures.
1	Ensure that security policies and operational procedures for managing vendor defaults and other security parameters are documented, in use, and known to all affected parties.	Network environments and virtual instances shall be designed and configured to restrict and monitor traffic between trusted and untrusted connections. These configurations shall be reviewed at least annually, and supported by a documented justification for use for all allowed services, protocols, ports, and by compensating controls.
0	Ensure that there are written incident response plans that define roles of personnel as well as phases of incident handling/management.	Executive and line management shall take formal action to support information security through clearly-documented direction and commitment, and shall ensure the action has been assigned.
0	Users shall  be required to follow the organization's practices in the  use of secret authentication information.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for defining and adhering to the retention period of any critical asset as per established policies and procedures, as well as applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance obligations. Backup and recovery measures shall be incorporated as part of business continuity planning and tested accordingly for effectiveness.
1	Management shall actively support security within the organization through clear direction, demonstrated commitment, explicit assignment, and acknowledgment of information security responsibilities.	Risks shall be mitigated to an acceptable level. Acceptance levels based on risk criteria shall be established and documented in accordance with reasonable resolution time frames and stakeholder approval.
0	Physical security for offices, rooms, and facilities shall be designed and applied.	Third-party service providers shall demonstrate compliance with information security and confidentiality, access control, service definitions, and delivery level agreements included in third-party contracts. Third-party reports, records, and services shall undergo audit and review at least annually to govern and maintain compliance with the service delivery agreements.
0	Managers shall regularly review the compliance of information processing and procedures within their area of responsibility with the appropriate security policies, standards and any other security requirements.	Employment agreements shall incorporate provisions and/or terms for adherence to established information governance and security policies and must be signed by newly hired or on-boarded workforce personnel (e.g., full or part-time employee or contingent staff) prior to granting workforce personnel user access to corporate facilities, resources, and assets.
0	Shred, incinerate, or pulp hard- copy materials so that cardholder data cannot be reconstructed. Secure storage containers used for materials that are to be destroyed.	Prior to granting customers access to data, assets, and information systems, identified security, contractual, and regulatory requirements for customer access shall be addressed.
0	Operating procedures shall be documented and made available to all users who need them.	Organizations shall create and maintain a control framework which captures standards, regulatory, legal, and statutory requirements relevant for their business needs. The control framework shall be reviewed at least annually to ensure changes that could affect the business processes are reflected.
0	Data input to applications and databases shall be validated to ensure that this data is correct and appropriate.	Roles and responsibilities for performing employment termination or change in employment procedures shall be assigned, documented, and communicated.
0	Conflicting duties and areas of responsibility shall be segregated to reduce opportunities for unauthorized or unintentional modification or misuse of the organization's assets.	Policies and procedures shall be established for the labeling, handling, and security of data and objects which contain data. Mechanisms for label inheritance shall be implemented for objects that act as aggregate containers for data.
1	Managers shall ensure that all security procedures within their area of responsibility are carried out correctly to achieve compliance with security policies and standards.	The provider shall perform annual internal assessments of conformance to, and effectiveness of, its policies, procedures, and supporting measures and metrics.
0	Managers shall regularly review the compliance of information processing and procedures within their area of responsibility with the appropriate security policies, standards and any other security requirements.	Roles and responsibilities of contractors, employees, and third-party users shall be documented as they relate to information assets and security.
1	Networks shall be managed and controlled to protect information in systems and applications.	User access to diagnostic and configuration ports shall be restricted to authorized individuals and applications.
1	Maintain an up-to-date list of devices. The list should include the following:  Make, model of device  Location of device (for example, the address of the site or facility where the device is located)  Device serial number or other method of unique identification.PCI DSS Requirements	Assets must be classified in terms of business criticality, service-level expectations, and operational continuity requirements. A complete inventory of business-critical assets located at all sites and/or geographical locations and their usage over time shall be maintained and updated regularly, and assigned ownership by defined roles and responsibilities.
0	Statements of business requirements for new information systems (developed or purchased), or enhancements to existing information systems shall specify the requirements for security controls.	Providers shall review the risk management and governance processes of their partners so that practices are consistent and aligned to account for risks inherited from other members of that partner's cloud supply chain.
1	The organization establishes terms and conditions, consistent with any trust relationships established with other organizations owning, operating, and/or maintaining external information systems, allowing authorized individuals to:  a. Access the information system from external information systems; and  b. Process, store, or transmit organization-controlled information using external information systems.	The provider shall have a documented mobile device policy that includes a documented definition for mobile devices and the acceptable usage and requirements for all mobile devices. The provider shall post and communicate the policy and requirements through the company's security awareness and training program.
0	Ensure that all network traffic to or from the Internet passes through an authenticated application layer proxy that is configured to filter unauthorized connections.	Points of contact for applicable regulation authorities, national and local law enforcement, and other legal jurisdictional authorities shall be maintained and regularly updated (e.g., change in impacted-scope and/or a change in any compliance obligation) to ensure direct compliance liaisons have been established and to be prepared for a forensic investigation requiring rapid engagement with law enforcement.
1	Default “deny-all” setting.	User access to diagnostic and configuration ports shall be restricted to authorized individuals and applications.
1	Utilize an up-to-date SCAP-compliant vulnerability scanning tool to automatically scan all systems on the network on a weekly or more frequent basis to identify all potential vulnerabilities on the organization’s systems.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting processes and technical measures implemented, for timely detection of vulnerabilities within organizationally-owned or managed applications, infrastructure network and system components (e.g., network vulnerability assessment, penetration testing) to ensure the efficiency of implemented security controls. A risk-based model for prioritizing remediation of identified vulnerabilities shall be used. Changes shall be managed through a change management process for all vendor-supplied patches, configuration changes, or changes to the organization's internally developed software. Upon request, the provider informs customer (tenant) of policies and procedures and identified weaknesses especially if customer (tenant) data is used as part the service and/or customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of control.
0	All identified security requirements shall be addressed before giving customers access to the organization's information or assets.	Policies and procedures shall be implemented to ensure the consistent review of service agreements (e.g., SLAs) between providers and customers (tenants) across the relevant supply chain (upstream/downstream). Reviews shall be performed at least annually and identify any non-conformance to established agreements. The reviews should result in actions to address service-level conflicts or inconsistencies resulting from disparate supplier relationships.
0	Review custom code prior to release to production or customers in order to identify any potential coding vulnerability (using either manual or automated processes) to include at least the following:  Code changes are reviewed by individuals other than the originating code author, and by individuals knowledgeable about code-review techniques and secure coding practices.  Code reviews ensure code is developed according to secure coding guidelines  Appropriate corrections are implemented prior to release.  Code-review results are reviewed and approved by management prior to release.(Continued on next page)PCI DSS Requirements	Managers are responsible for maintaining awareness of, and complying with, security policies, procedures, and standards that are relevant to their area of responsibility.
0	Information systems shall be regularly reviewed for compliance with the organization's information security policies and standards.	There shall be a defined and documented method for determining the impact of any disruption to the organization (cloud provider, cloud consumer) that must incorporate the following:  • Identify critical products and services  • Identify all dependencies, including processes, applications, business partners, and third party service providers  • Understand threats to critical products and services  • Determine impacts resulting from planned or unplanned disruptions and how these vary over time  • Establish the maximum tolerable period for disruption  • Establish priorities for recovery  • Establish recovery time objectives for resumption of critical products and services within their maximum tolerable period of disruption  • Estimate the resources required for resumption
0	The organization explicitly authorizes access to [Assignment: organization-defined security functions (deployed in hardware, software, and firmware) and security-relevant information].	An inventory of all mobile devices used to store and access company data shall be kept and maintained. All changes to the status of these devices (i.e., operating system and patch levels, lost or decommissioned status, and to whom the device is assigned or approved for usage (BYOD)) will be included for each device in the inventory.
1	Leverage the Advanced Encryption Standard (AES) to encrypt wireless data in transit.	Secured and encrypted communication channels shall be used when migrating physical servers, applications, or data to virtualized servers and, where possible, shall use a network segregated from production-level networks for such migrations.
0	• What time source is used to synchronise systems and provide accurate audit log time stamping?	User access policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for ensuring appropriate identity, entitlement, and access management for all internal corporate and customer (tenant) users with access to data and organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) application interfaces and infrastructure network and systems components. These policies, procedures, processes, and measures must incorporate the following:  • Procedures, supporting roles, and responsibilities for provisioning and de-provisioning user account entitlements following the rule of least privilege based on job function (e.g., internal employee and contingent staff personnel changes, customer-controlled access, suppliers' business relationships, or other third-party business relationships)  • Business case considerations for higher levels of assurance and multi-factor authentication secrets (e.g., management interfaces, key generation, remote access, segregation of duties, emergency access, large-scale provisioning or geographically-distributed deployments, and personnel redundancy for critical systems)  • Access segmentation to sessions and data in multi-tenant architectures by any third party (e.g., provider and/or other customer (tenant))  • Identity trust verification and service-to-service application (API) and information processing interoperability (e.g., SSO and federation)  • Account credential lifecycle management from instantiation through revocation  • Account credential and/or identity store minimization or re-use when feasible  • Authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules for access to data and sessions (e.g., encryption and strong/multi-factor, expireable, non-shared authentication secrets)  • Permissions and supporting capabilities for customer (tenant) controls over authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules for access to data and sessions  • Adherence to applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance requirements
1	Privacy and protection of personally identifiable information shall be ensured as required in relevant legislation and regulation where applicable.	Risk assessments associated with data governance requirements shall be conducted at planned intervals and shall consider the following:  • Awareness of where sensitive data is stored and transmitted across applications, databases, servers, and network infrastructure  • Compliance with defined retention periods and end-of-life disposal requirements  • Data classification and protection from unauthorized use, access, loss, destruction, and falsification
0	The organization’s application whitelisting software must ensure that only authorized software libraries (such as *.dll, *.ocx, *.so, etc.) are allowed to load into a system process.	The organization’s application whitelisting software must ensure that only authorized software libraries (such as *.dll, *.ocx, *.so, etc.) are allowed to load into a system process.
1	Always change vendor-supplied defaults and remove or disable unnecessary default accounts before installing a system on the network.	Each operating system shall be hardened to provide only necessary ports, protocols, and services to meet business needs and have in place supporting technical controls such as: antivirus, file integrity monitoring, and logging as part of their baseline operating build standard or template.
0	The services, reports and records provided by the third party shall be regularly monitored and reviewed, and audits shall be carried out regularly to govern and maintain compliance with the service delivery agreements.	Providers shall inspect, account for, and work with their cloud supply-chain partners to correct data quality errors and associated risks. Providers shall design and implement controls to mitigate and contain data security risks through proper separation of duties, role-based access, and least-privilege access for all personnel within their supply chain.
0	An appropriate set of procedures for information labelling shall be developed and implemented in accordance with the information classification scheme adopted by the organization.	Access to the organization's own developed applications, program, or object source code, or any other form of intellectual property (IP), and use of proprietary software shall be appropriately restricted following the rule of least privilege based on job function as per established user access policies and procedures.
0	Restrict access to privileged user IDs to least privileges necessary to perform job responsibilities.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to manage business risks associated with permitting mobile device access to corporate resources and may require the implementation of higher assurance compensating controls and acceptable-use policies and procedures (e.g., mandated security training, stronger identity, entitlement and access controls, and device monitoring).
0	The organization establishes terms and conditions, consistent with any trust relationships established with other organizations owning, operating, and/or maintaining external information systems, allowing authorized individuals to:  a. Access the information system from external information systems; and  b. Process, store, or transmit organization-controlled information using external information systems.	Information system documentation (e.g., administrator and user guides, and architecture diagrams) shall be made available to authorized personnel to ensure the following:  • Configuring, installing, and operating the information system  • Effectively using the system’s security features
0	Additional requirement for service providers only: Implement a process for the timely detection and reporting of failures of critical security control systems, including but not limited to failure of:  Firewalls  IDS/IPS  FIM  Anti-virus  Physical access controls  Logical access controls  Audit logging mechanisms  Segmentation controls (if used)	Additional requirement for service providers only: Implement a process for the timely detection and reporting of failures of critical security control systems, including but not limited to failure of:  Firewalls  IDS/IPS  FIM  Anti-virus  Physical access controls  Logical access controls  Audit logging mechanisms  Segmentation controls (if used)
0	A formal policy shall be in place, and appropriate security measures shall be adopted to protect against the risks of using mobile computing and communication devices.	A reliable and mutually agreed upon external time source shall be used to synchronize the system clocks of all relevant information processing systems to facilitate tracing and reconstitution of activity timelines.
1	Information security events shall be reported through appropriate communications channels as quickly as possible. All employees, contractors and third-party users shall be made aware of their responsibility to report any information security events as quickly as possible.	Workforce personnel and external business relationships shall be informed of their responsibilities and, if required, shall consent and/or contractually agree to report all information security events in a timely manner. Information security events shall be reported through predefined communications channels in a timely manner adhering to applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance obligations.
0	The organization employs temperature and humidity monitoring that provides an alarm or notification of changes potentially harmful to personnel or equipment. 	User access policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for ensuring appropriate identity, entitlement, and access management for all internal corporate and customer (tenant) users with access to data and organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) application interfaces and infrastructure network and systems components. These policies, procedures, processes, and measures must incorporate the following:  • Procedures, supporting roles, and responsibilities for provisioning and de-provisioning user account entitlements following the rule of least privilege based on job function (e.g., internal employee and contingent staff personnel changes, customer-controlled access, suppliers' business relationships, or other third-party business relationships)  • Business case considerations for higher levels of assurance and multi-factor authentication secrets (e.g., management interfaces, key generation, remote access, segregation of duties, emergency access, large-scale provisioning or geographically-distributed deployments, and personnel redundancy for critical systems)  • Access segmentation to sessions and data in multi-tenant architectures by any third party (e.g., provider and/or other customer (tenant))  • Identity trust verification and service-to-service application (API) and information processing interoperability (e.g., SSO and federation)  • Account credential lifecycle management from instantiation through revocation  • Account credential and/or identity store minimization or re-use when feasible  • Authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules for access to data and sessions (e.g., encryption and strong/multi-factor, expireable, non-shared authentication secrets)  • Permissions and supporting capabilities for customer (tenant) controls over authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules for access to data and sessions  • Adherence to applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance requirements
1	o Does the provider have an automated means to inventory all assets, which facilitates their appropriate management?	Automated equipment identification shall be used as a method of connection authentication. Location-aware technologies may be used to validate connection authentication integrity based on known equipment location.
0	The organization establishes terms and conditions, consistent with any trust relationships established with other organizations owning, operating, and/or maintaining external information systems, allowing authorized individuals to:  a. Access the information system from external information systems; and  b. Process, store, or transmit organization-controlled information using external information systems.	Mechanisms shall be put in place to monitor and quantify the types, volumes, and costs of information security incidents.
0	The organization:  a. Develops, documents, and disseminates to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]:    1. A system maintenance policy that addresses purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment, coordination among organizational entities, and compliance; and    2. Procedures to facilitate the implementation of the system maintenance policy and associated system maintenance controls; and  b. Reviews and updates the current:    1. System maintenance policy [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and    2. System maintenance procedures [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	User access policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for restricting user access as per defined segregation of duties to address business risks associated with a user-role conflict of interest.
1	The organization, upon termination of individual employment:  a. Disables information system access within [Assignment: organization-defined time period];  b. Terminates/revokes any authenticators/credentials associated with the individual;  c. Conducts exit interviews that include a discussion of [Assignment: organization-defined information security topics];  d. Retrieves all security-related organizational information system-related property;  e. Retains access to organizational information and information systems formerly controlled by terminated individual; and  f. Notifies [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles] within [Assignment: organization-defined time period].	Timely de-provisioning (revocation or modification) of user access to data and organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) applications, infrastructure systems, and network components, shall be implemented as per established policies and procedures and based on user's change in status (e.g., termination of employment or other business relationship, job change, or transfer). Upon request, provider shall inform customer (tenant) of these changes, especially if customer (tenant) data is used as part the service and/or customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of control.
1	Generation of strong cryptographic keys	Policies and procedures shall be established for the management of cryptographic keys in the service's cryptosystem (e.g., lifecycle management from key generation to revocation and replacement, public key infrastructure, cryptographic protocol design and algorithms used, access controls in place for secure key generation, and exchange and storage including segregation of keys used for encrypted data or sessions). Upon request, provider shall inform the customer (tenant) of changes within the cryptosystem, especially if the customer (tenant) data is used as part of the service, and/or the customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of the control.
1	Equipment shall be protected from power failures and other disruptions caused by failures in supporting utilities.	Protection measures shall be put into place to react to natural and man-made threats based upon a geographically-specific business impact assessment.
0	The organization develops, documents, and implements a configuration management plan for the information system that:  a. Addresses roles, responsibilities, and configuration management processes and procedures;  b. Establishes a process for identifying configuration items throughout the system development life cycle and for managing the configuration of the configuration items;  c. Defines the configuration items for the information system and places the configuration items under configuration management; and  d. Protects the configuration management plan from unauthorized disclosure and modification.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to manage business risks associated with permitting mobile device access to corporate resources and may require the implementation of higher assurance compensating controls and acceptable-use policies and procedures (e.g., mandated security training, stronger identity, entitlement and access controls, and device monitoring).
0	Visitors are asked to surrender the badge or identification before leaving the facility or at the date of expiration.	Keys must have identifiable owners (binding keys to identities) and there shall be key management policies.
0	Privacy and protection of personally identifiable information shall be ensured as required in relevant legislation and regulation where applicable.	Prior to granting customers access to data, assets, and information systems, identified security, contractual, and regulatory requirements for customer access shall be addressed.
1	Information systems shall be regularly reviewed for compliance with the organization's information security policies and standards.	Risk assessment results shall include updates to security policies, procedures, standards, and controls to ensure that they remain relevant and effective.
0	Maintain an inventory of system components that are in scope for PCI DSS.	A formal disciplinary or sanction policy shall be established for employees who have violated security policies and procedures. Employees shall be made aware of what action might be taken in the event of a violation, and disciplinary measures must be stated in the policies and procedures.
1	Power and telecommunications cabling carrying data or supporting information services shall be protected from interception or damage.	Data center utilities services and environmental conditions (e.g., water, power, temperature and humidity controls, telecommunications, and internet connectivity) shall be secured, monitored, maintained, and tested for continual effectiveness at planned intervals to ensure protection from unauthorized interception or damage, and designed with automated fail-over or other redundancies in the event of planned or unplanned disruptions.
0	Protect devices that capture payment card data via direct physical interaction with the card from tampering and substitution.	Organizations shall follow a defined quality change control and testing process (e.g., ITIL Service Management) with established baselines, testing, and release standards that focus on system availability, confidentiality, and integrity of systems and services.
0	Physical protection against natural disasters, malicious attack or accidents shall be designed and applied.	Pursuant to local laws, regulations, ethics, and contractual constraints, all employment candidates, contractors, and third parties shall be subject to background verification proportional to the data classification to be accessed, the business requirements, and acceptable risk.
0	There shall be procedures in place to control the installation of software on operational systems.	The company shall have a documented application validation process to test for mobile device, operating system, and application compatibility issues.
0	Rules for the acceptable use of information and of assets associated with information and information processing facilities shall be identified, documented and implemented.	Physical protection against damage from natural causes and disasters, as well as deliberate attacks, including fire, flood, atmospheric electrical discharge, solar induced geomagnetic storm, wind, earthquake, tsunami, explosion, nuclear accident, volcanic activity, biological hazard, civil unrest, mudslide, tectonic activity, and other forms of natural or man-made disaster shall be anticipated, designed, and have countermeasures applied.
1	The organization:  a. Develops, documents, and disseminates to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]:    1. A personnel security policy that addresses purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment, coordination among organizational entities, and compliance; and    2. Procedures to facilitate the implementation of the personnel security policy and associated personnel security controls; and  b. Reviews and updates the current:    1. Personnel security policy [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and    2. Personnel security procedures [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	Roles and responsibilities of contractors, employees, and third-party users shall be documented as they relate to information assets and security.
0	The organization:  a. Develops, documents, and disseminates to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]:    1. An incident response policy that addresses purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment, coordination among organizational entities, and compliance; and    2. Procedures to facilitate the implementation of the incident response policy and associated incident response controls; and  b. Reviews and updates the current:    1. Incident response policy [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and    2. Incident response procedures [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to manage business risks associated with permitting mobile device access to corporate resources and may require the implementation of higher assurance compensating controls and acceptable-use policies and procedures (e.g., mandated security training, stronger identity, entitlement and access controls, and device monitoring).
1	• What forms of authentication are used for operations requiring high assurance? This may include login to management interfaces, key creation, access to multiple-user accounts, firewall configuration, remote access, etc. o Is two-factor authentication used to manage critical components within the infrastructure, such as firewalls, etc? 	User access policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for ensuring appropriate identity, entitlement, and access management for all internal corporate and customer (tenant) users with access to data and organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) application interfaces and infrastructure network and systems components. These policies, procedures, processes, and measures must incorporate the following:  • Procedures, supporting roles, and responsibilities for provisioning and de-provisioning user account entitlements following the rule of least privilege based on job function (e.g., internal employee and contingent staff personnel changes, customer-controlled access, suppliers' business relationships, or other third-party business relationships)  • Business case considerations for higher levels of assurance and multi-factor authentication secrets (e.g., management interfaces, key generation, remote access, segregation of duties, emergency access, large-scale provisioning or geographically-distributed deployments, and personnel redundancy for critical systems)  • Access segmentation to sessions and data in multi-tenant architectures by any third party (e.g., provider and/or other customer (tenant))  • Identity trust verification and service-to-service application (API) and information processing interoperability (e.g., SSO and federation)  • Account credential lifecycle management from instantiation through revocation  • Account credential and/or identity store minimization or re-use when feasible  • Authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules for access to data and sessions (e.g., encryption and strong/multi-factor, expireable, non-shared authentication secrets)  • Permissions and supporting capabilities for customer (tenant) controls over authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules for access to data and sessions  • Adherence to applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance requirements
1	When operating platforms are changed, business critical applications shall be reviewed and tested to ensure there is no adverse impact on organizational operations or security.	Password policies, applicable to mobile devices, shall be documented and enforced through technical controls on all company devices or devices approved for BYOD usage, and shall prohibit the changing of password/PIN lengths and authentication requirements.
0	Sensitive systems shall have a dedicated and isolated computing environment.	Sensitive systems shall have a dedicated and isolated computing environment.
0	Respond to failures of any critical security controls in a timely manner.	Policies and procedures shall be established to require that unattended workspaces do not have openly visible (e.g., on a desktop) sensitive documents and user computing sessions are disabled after an established period of inactivity.
1	o Does the provider maintain a documented method that details the impact of a disruption? o What are the RPO (recovery point objective) and RTO (recovery time objective) for services? Detail according to the criticality of the service. o Are information security activities appropriately addressed in the restoration process? o What are the lines of communication to end customers in the event of a disruption? o Are the roles and responsibilities of teams clearly identified when dealing with a disruption? 	There shall be a defined and documented method for determining the impact of any disruption to the organization (cloud provider, cloud consumer) that must incorporate the following:  • Identify critical products and services  • Identify all dependencies, including processes, applications, business partners, and third party service providers  • Understand threats to critical products and services  • Determine impacts resulting from planned or unplanned disruptions and how these vary over time  • Establish the maximum tolerable period for disruption  • Establish priorities for recovery  • Establish recovery time objectives for resumption of critical products and services within their maximum tolerable period of disruption  • Estimate the resources required for resumption
1	A visitor log is used to maintain a physical audit trail of visitor activity to the facility as well as computer rooms and data centers where cardholder data is stored or transmitted.	Physical access to information assets and functions by users and support personnel shall be restricted.
0	To ensure that employees and contractors understand  their  responsibilities  and  are  suitable for the roles for which they are considered.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to triage security-related events and ensure timely and thorough incident management, as per established IT service management policies and procedures.
1	Information systems shall be regularly reviewed for compliance with the organization's information security policies and standards.	Baseline security requirements shall be established for developed or acquired, organizationally-owned or managed, physical or virtual, applications and infrastructure system and network components that comply with applicable legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations. Deviations from standard baseline configurations must be authorized following change management policies and procedures prior to deployment, provisioning, or use. Compliance with security baseline requirements must be reassessed at least annually unless an alternate frequency has been established and authorized based on business needs.
0	Information systems shall be regularly reviewed for compliance with the organization's information security policies and standards.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to prevent the execution of malware on organizationally-owned or managed user end-point devices (i.e., issued workstations, laptops, and mobile devices) and IT infrastructure network and systems components.
0	The organization provides basic security awareness training to information system users (including managers, senior executives, and contractors):  a. As part of initial training for new users;  b. When required by information system changes; and  c. [Assignment: organization-defined frequency] thereafter.	All cloud-based services used by the company's mobile devices or BYOD shall be pre-approved for usage and the storage of company business data.
0	Develop usage policies for critical technologies and define proper use of these technologies.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting processes and technical measures implemented, for timely detection of vulnerabilities within organizationally-owned or managed applications, infrastructure network and system components (e.g., network vulnerability assessment, penetration testing) to ensure the efficiency of implemented security controls. A risk-based model for prioritizing remediation of identified vulnerabilities shall be used. Changes shall be managed through a change management process for all vendor-supplied patches, configuration changes, or changes to the organization's internally developed software. Upon request, the provider informs customer (tenant) of policies and procedures and identified weaknesses especially if customer (tenant) data is used as part the service and/or customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of control.
1	• Provide details of the patch management procedure followed.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting processes and technical measures implemented, for timely detection of vulnerabilities within organizationally-owned or managed applications, infrastructure network and system components (e.g., network vulnerability assessment, penetration testing) to ensure the efficiency of implemented security controls. A risk-based model for prioritizing remediation of identified vulnerabilities shall be used. Changes shall be managed through a change management process for all vendor-supplied patches, configuration changes, or changes to the organization's internally developed software. Upon request, the provider informs customer (tenant) of policies and procedures and identified weaknesses especially if customer (tenant) data is used as part the service and/or customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of control.
1	Build firewall and router configurations that restrict connections between untrusted networks and any system components in the cardholder data environment.	Multi-tenant organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) applications, and infrastructure system and network components, shall be designed, developed, deployed, and configured such that provider and customer (tenant) user access is appropriately segmented from other tenant users, based on the following considerations:  • Established policies and procedures  • Isolation of business critical assets and/or sensitive user data, and sessions that mandate stronger internal controls and high levels of assurance  • Compliance with legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations
0	Mask PAN when displayed (the first six and last four digits are the maximum number of digits to be displayed), such that only personnel with a legitimate business need can see more than the first six/last four digits of the PAN.	Baseline security requirements shall be established for developed or acquired, organizationally-owned or managed, physical or virtual, applications and infrastructure system and network components that comply with applicable legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations. Deviations from standard baseline configurations must be authorized following change management policies and procedures prior to deployment, provisioning, or use. Compliance with security baseline requirements must be reassessed at least annually unless an alternate frequency has been established and authorized based on business needs.
1	Utilize centrally managed anti-malware software to continuously monitor and defend each of the organization’s workstations and servers.	The mobile device policy shall require the BYOD user to perform backups of data, prohibit the usage of unapproved application stores, and require the use of anti-malware software (where supported).
1	Protect devices that capture payment card data via direct physical interaction with the card from tampering and substitution.	Policies and procedures shall be established for the labeling, handling, and security of data and objects which contain data. Mechanisms for label inheritance shall be implemented for objects that act as aggregate containers for data.
0	Asset owners shall review users' access rights at regular intervals.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to protect wireless network environments, including the following:  • Perimeter firewalls implemented and configured to restrict unauthorized traffic  • Security settings enabled with strong encryption for authentication and transmission, replacing vendor default settings (e.g., encryption keys, passwords, and SNMP community strings)  • User access to wireless network devices restricted to authorized personnel  • The capability to detect the presence of unauthorized (rogue) wireless network devices for a timely disconnect from the network
0	The organization employs the principle of least privilege, allowing only authorized accesses for users (or processes acting on behalf of users) which are necessary to accomplish assigned tasks in accordance with organizational missions and business functions.	The BYOD policy and supporting awareness training clearly states the approved applications, application stores, and application extensions and plugins that may be used for BYOD usage.
1	The organization permits authorized individuals to use an external information system to access the information system or to process, store, or transmit organization-controlled information only when the organization:  (a)   Verifies the implementation of required security controls on the external system as specified in the organization’s information security policy and security plan; or  (b)   Retains approved information system connection or processing agreements with the organizational entity hosting the external information system.	The mobile device policy shall require the use of encryption either for the entire device or for data identified as sensitive on all mobile devices, and shall be enforced through technology controls.
0	The organization:  a. Develops, documents, and disseminates to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]:    1. A physical and environmental protection policy that addresses purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment, coordination among organizational entities, and compliance; and    2. Procedures to facilitate the implementation of the physical and environmental protection policy and associated physical and environmental protection controls; and  b. Reviews and updates the current:    1. Physical and environmental protection policy [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and    2. Physical and environmental protection procedures [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	Audit plans shall be developed and maintained to address business process disruptions. Auditing plans shall focus on reviewing the effectiveness of the implementation of security operations. All audit activities must be agreed upon prior to executing any audits.
0	A list of all such devices and personnel with access	The mobile device policy shall require the use of encryption either for the entire device or for data identified as sensitive on all mobile devices, and shall be enforced through technology controls.
1	Additional requirement for service providers only: Executive management shall establish responsibility for the protection of cardholder data and a PCI DSS compliance program to include:  Overall accountability for maintaining PCI DSS compliance  Defining a charter for a PCI DSS compliance program and communication to executive management	All personnel shall be made aware of their roles and responsibilities for:  • Maintaining awareness and compliance with established policies and procedures and applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance obligations.  • Maintaining a safe and secure working environment
0	To minimize the PII which is processed to what is strictly necessary for the legitimate interest pursued by the PII controller and to limit the disclosure of PII to a minimum number of internal and external parties.	To minimize the PII which is processed to what is strictly necessary for the legitimate interest pursued by the PII controller and to limit the disclosure of PII to a minimum number of internal and external parties.
0	The organization reviews historic audit logs to determine if a vulnerability identified in the information system has been previously exploited.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to protect wireless network environments, including the following:  • Perimeter firewalls implemented and configured to restrict unauthorized traffic  • Security settings enabled with strong encryption for authentication and transmission, replacing vendor default settings (e.g., encryption keys, passwords, and SNMP community strings)  • User access to wireless network devices restricted to authorized personnel  • The capability to detect the presence of unauthorized (rogue) wireless network devices for a timely disconnect from the network
0	• Is user directory data exportable in an interoperable format?	A consistent unified framework for business continuity planning and plan development shall be established, documented, and adopted to ensure all business continuity plans are consistent in addressing priorities for testing, maintenance, and information security requirements.  Requirements for business continuity plans include the following:  • Defined purpose and scope, aligned with relevant dependencies  • Accessible to and understood by those who will use them  • Owned by a named person(s) who is responsible for their review, update, and approval  • Defined lines of communication, roles, and responsibilities  • Detailed recovery procedures, manual work-around, and reference information  • Method for plan invocation
0	The information system provides the capability to process audit records for events of interest based on [Assignment: organization-defined audit fields within audit records].	The information system provides the capability to process audit records for events of interest based on [Assignment: organization-defined audit fields within audit records].
1	What measures are taken to ensure third party service levels are met and maintained?	Third-party service providers shall demonstrate compliance with information security and confidentiality, access control, service definitions, and delivery level agreements included in third-party contracts. Third-party reports, records, and services shall undergo audit and review at least annually to govern and maintain compliance with the service delivery agreements.
1	The information system implements cryptographic mechanisms to prevent unauthorized disclosure and modification of [Assignment: organization-defined information] on [Assignment: organization-defined information system components].	The mobile device policy shall require the use of encryption either for the entire device or for data identified as sensitive on all mobile devices, and shall be enforced through technology controls.
0	The organization provides information spillage response training [Assignment: organization- defined frequency]. 	The organization provides information spillage response training [Assignment: organization- defined frequency]. 
1	Utilize centrally managed anti-malware software to continuously monitor and defend each of the organization’s workstations and servers.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to manage business risks associated with permitting mobile device access to corporate resources and may require the implementation of higher assurance compensating controls and acceptable-use policies and procedures (e.g., mandated security training, stronger identity, entitlement and access controls, and device monitoring).
1	• In the case of SaaS, are the API interfaces used standardised?	Policies, procedures, and mutually-agreed upon provisions and/or terms shall be established to satisfy customer (tenant) requirements for service-to-service application (API) and information processing interoperability, and portability for application development and information exchange, usage, and integrity persistence.
0	Information systems shall be regularly reviewed for compliance with the organization's information security policies and standards.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting processes and technical measures implemented, for timely detection of vulnerabilities within organizationally-owned or managed applications, infrastructure network and system components (e.g., network vulnerability assessment, penetration testing) to ensure the efficiency of implemented security controls. A risk-based model for prioritizing remediation of identified vulnerabilities shall be used. Changes shall be managed through a change management process for all vendor-supplied patches, configuration changes, or changes to the organization's internally developed software. Upon request, the provider informs customer (tenant) of policies and procedures and identified weaknesses especially if customer (tenant) data is used as part the service and/or customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of control.
1	• What changes, if any, are made to administrator privileges and roles to allow for extraordinary access in the event of an emergency?	User access policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for ensuring appropriate identity, entitlement, and access management for all internal corporate and customer (tenant) users with access to data and organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) application interfaces and infrastructure network and systems components. These policies, procedures, processes, and measures must incorporate the following:  • Procedures, supporting roles, and responsibilities for provisioning and de-provisioning user account entitlements following the rule of least privilege based on job function (e.g., internal employee and contingent staff personnel changes, customer-controlled access, suppliers' business relationships, or other third-party business relationships)  • Business case considerations for higher levels of assurance and multi-factor authentication secrets (e.g., management interfaces, key generation, remote access, segregation of duties, emergency access, large-scale provisioning or geographically-distributed deployments, and personnel redundancy for critical systems)  • Access segmentation to sessions and data in multi-tenant architectures by any third party (e.g., provider and/or other customer (tenant))  • Identity trust verification and service-to-service application (API) and information processing interoperability (e.g., SSO and federation)  • Account credential lifecycle management from instantiation through revocation  • Account credential and/or identity store minimization or re-use when feasible  • Authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules for access to data and sessions (e.g., encryption and strong/multi-factor, expireable, non-shared authentication secrets)  • Permissions and supporting capabilities for customer (tenant) controls over authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules for access to data and sessions  • Adherence to applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance requirements
1	The organization reviews historic audit logs to determine if a vulnerability identified in the information system has been previously exploited.	Higher levels of assurance are required for protection, retention, and lifecycle management of audit logs, adhering to applicable legal, statutory or regulatory compliance obligations and providing unique user access accountability to detect potentially suspicious network behaviors and/or file integrity anomalies, and to support forensic investigative capabilities in the event of a security breach.
0	The information system separates user functionality (including user interface services) from information system management functionality.	User access to diagnostic and configuration ports shall be restricted to authorized individuals and applications.
0	The organization requires the developer of the information system, system component, or information system service to employ static code analysis tools to identify common flaws and document the results of the analysis.	Policies and procedures are established for permissible storage and access of identities used for authentication to ensure identities are only accessible based on rules of least privilege and replication limitation only to users explicitly defined as business necessary.
1	Records shall be protected from loss, destruction, falsification, unauthorized access and unauthorized release, in accordance with legislator^ regulatory, contractual and business requirements.	Access to the organization's own developed applications, program, or object source code, or any other form of intellectual property (IP), and use of proprietary software shall be appropriately restricted following the rule of least privilege based on job function as per established user access policies and procedures.
1	All information security responsibilities shall be clearly defined.	An Information Security Management Program (ISMP) shall be developed, documented, approved, and implemented that includes administrative, technical, and physical safeguards to protect assets and data from loss, misuse, unauthorized access, disclosure, alteration, and destruction. The security program shall include, but not be limited to, the following areas insofar as they relate to the characteristics of the business:  • Risk management  • Security policy  • Organization of information security  • Asset management  • Human resources security  • Physical and environmental security  • Communications and operations management  • Access control  • Information systems acquisition, development, and maintenance
0	Modifications to software packages shall be discouraged, limited to necessary changes and all changes shall be strictly controlled.	A documented list of approved application stores has been defined as acceptable for mobile devices accessing or storing provider managed data.
1	Organizations shall regularly monitor, review and audit supplier service delivery.	External business partners shall adhere to the same policies and procedures for change management, release, and testing as internal developers within the organization (e.g., ITIL service management processes).
1	For systems considered to be not commonly affected by malicious software, perform periodic evaluations to identify and evaluate evolving malware threats in order to confirm whether such systems continue to not require anti-virus software.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to restrict the installation of unauthorized software on organizationally-owned or managed user end-point devices (e.g., issued workstations, laptops, and mobile devices) and IT infrastructure network and systems components.
1	The organization establishes terms and conditions, consistent with any trust relationships established with other organizations owning, operating, and/or maintaining external information systems, allowing authorized individuals to:  a. Access the information system from external information systems; and  b. Process, store, or transmit organization-controlled information using external information systems.	A documented list of approved application stores has been defined as acceptable for mobile devices accessing or storing provider managed data.
1	The organization:  a. Develops an incident response plan that:    1. Provides the organization with a roadmap for implementing its incident response capability;    2. Describes the structure and organization of the incident response capability;    3. Provides a high-level approach for how the incident response capability fits into the overall organization;    4. Meets the unique requirements of the organization, which relate to mission, size, structure, and functions;    5. Defines reportable incidents;    6. Provides metrics for measuring the incident response capability within the organization;    7. Defines the resources and management support needed to effectively maintain and mature an incident response capability; and    8. Is reviewed and approved by [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles];  b. Distributes copies of the incident response plan to [Assignment: organization-defined incident response personnel (identified by name and/or by role) and organizational elements];  c. Reviews the incident response plan [Assignment: organization-defined frequency];  d. Updates the incident response plan to address system/organizational changes or problems encountered during plan implementation, execution, or testing;   e. Communicates incident response plan changes to [Assignment: organization-defined incident response personnel (identified by name and/or by role) and organizational elements]; and f. Protects the incident response plan from unauthorized disclosure and modification.	Points of contact for applicable regulation authorities, national and local law enforcement, and other legal jurisdictional authorities shall be maintained and regularly updated (e.g., change in impacted-scope and/or a change in any compliance obligation) to ensure direct compliance liaisons have been established and to be prepared for a forensic investigation requiring rapid engagement with law enforcement.
0	Rules for the acceptable use of information and of assets associated with information and information processing facilities shall be identified, documented and implemented.	Points of contact for applicable regulation authorities, national and local law enforcement, and other legal jurisdictional authorities shall be maintained and regularly updated (e.g., change in impacted-scope and/or a change in any compliance obligation) to ensure direct compliance liaisons have been established and to be prepared for a forensic investigation requiring rapid engagement with law enforcement.
0	The organization:  a. Schedules, performs, documents, and reviews records of maintenance and repairs on information system components in accordance with manufacturer or vendor specifications and/or organizational requirements;  b. Approves and monitors all maintenance activities, whether performed on site or remotely and whether the equipment is serviced on site or removed to another location;  c. Requires that [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles] explicitly approve the removal of the information system or system components from organizational facilities for off-site maintenance or repairs;  d. Sanitizes equipment to remove all information from associated media prior to removal from organizational facilities for off-site maintenance or repairs;  e. Checks all potentially impacted security controls to verify that the controls are still functioning properly following maintenance or repair actions; and  f. Includes [Assignment: organization-defined maintenance-related information] in organizational maintenance records.	Changes to mobile device operating systems, patch levels, and/or applications shall be managed through the company's change management processes.
1	When operating platforms are changed, business critical applications shall be reviewed and tested to ensure there is no adverse impact on organizational operations or security.	A documented list of approved application stores has been defined as acceptable for mobile devices accessing or storing provider managed data.
1	Managers shall regularly review the compliance of information processing and procedures within their area of responsibility with the appropriate security policies, standards and any other security requirements.	The BYOD policy shall define the device and eligibility requirements to allow for BYOD usage.
1	Verify user identity before modifying any authentication credential—for example, performing password resets, provisioning new tokens, or generating new keys.	Policies and procedures shall be established for the management of cryptographic keys in the service's cryptosystem (e.g., lifecycle management from key generation to revocation and replacement, public key infrastructure, cryptographic protocol design and algorithms used, access controls in place for secure key generation, and exchange and storage including segregation of keys used for encrypted data or sessions). Upon request, provider shall inform the customer (tenant) of changes within the cryptosystem, especially if the customer (tenant) data is used as part of the service, and/or the customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of the control.
0	Enforce network-based URL filters that limit a system’s ability to connect to websites not approved by the organization. This filtering shall be enforced for each of the organization’s systems, whether they are physically at an organization’s facilities or not.	Applications and programming interfaces (APIs) shall be designed, developed, deployed, and tested in accordance with leading industry standards (e.g., OWASP for web applications) and adhere to applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance obligations.
1	Implement physical and/or logical controls to restrict access to publicly accessible network jacks.	User access to diagnostic and configuration ports shall be restricted to authorized individuals and applications.
0	When operating platforms are changed, business critical applications shall be reviewed and tested to ensure there is no adverse impact on organizational operations or security.	Protection measures shall be put into place to react to natural and man-made threats based upon a geographically-specific business impact assessment.
0	The organization develops, documents, and maintains under configuration control, a current baseline configuration of the information system.	A centralized, mobile device management solution shall be deployed to all mobile devices permitted to store, transmit, or process customer data.
0	Managers shall regularly review the compliance of information processing and procedures within their area of responsibility with the appropriate security policies, standards and any other security requirements.	Policies and procedures shall be established for the secure disposal of equipment (by asset type) used outside the organization's premises. This shall include a wiping solution or destruction process that renders recovery of information impossible. The erasure shall consist of a full overwrite of the drive to ensure that the erased drive is released to inventory for reuse and deployment, or securely stored until it can be destroyed.
1	• What provisions exist in the event of the theft of a customer’s credentials (detection, revocation, evidence for actions)?	Proper forensic procedures, including chain of custody, are required for the presentation of evidence to support potential legal action subject to the relevant jurisdiction after an information security incident. Upon notification, customers and/or other external business partners impacted by a security breach shall be given the opportunity to participate as is legally permissible in the forensic investigation.
0	Information systems shall be regularly reviewed for compliance with the organization's information security policies and standards.	Prior to granting customers access to data, assets, and information systems, identified security, contractual, and regulatory requirements for customer access shall be addressed.
1	Secure cryptographic key distribution	Policies and procedures shall be established for the management of cryptographic keys in the service's cryptosystem (e.g., lifecycle management from key generation to revocation and replacement, public key infrastructure, cryptographic protocol design and algorithms used, access controls in place for secure key generation, and exchange and storage including segregation of keys used for encrypted data or sessions). Upon request, provider shall inform the customer (tenant) of changes within the cryptosystem, especially if the customer (tenant) data is used as part of the service, and/or the customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of the control.
0	Managers shall regularly review the compliance of information processing and procedures within their area of responsibility with the appropriate security policies, standards and any other security requirements.	To reduce the risks from environmental threats, hazards, and opportunities for unauthorized access, equipment shall be kept away from locations subject to high probability environmental risks and supplemented by redundant equipment located at a reasonable distance.
0	Review custom code prior to release to production or customers in order to identify any potential coding vulnerability (using either manual or automated processes) to include at least the following:  Code changes are reviewed by individuals other than the originating code author, and by individuals knowledgeable about code-review techniques and secure coding practices.  Code reviews ensure code is developed according to secure coding guidelines  Appropriate corrections are implemented prior to release.  Code-review results are reviewed and approved by management prior to release.(Continued on next page)PCI DSS Requirements	The provider shall perform annual internal assessments of conformance to, and effectiveness of, its policies, procedures, and supporting measures and metrics.
0	The organization establishes terms and conditions, consistent with any trust relationships established with other organizations owning, operating, and/or maintaining external information systems, allowing authorized individuals to:  a. Access the information system from external information systems; and  b. Process, store, or transmit organization-controlled information using external information systems.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for appropriate IT governance and service management to ensure appropriate planning, delivery, and support of the organization's IT capabilities supporting business functions, workforce, and/or customers based on industry acceptable standards (i.e., ITIL v4 and COBIT 5). Additionally, policies and procedures shall include defined roles and responsibilities supported by regular workforce training.
1	The organization establishes terms and conditions, consistent with any trust relationships established with other organizations owning, operating, and/or maintaining external information systems, allowing authorized individuals to:  a. Access the information system from external information systems; and  b. Process, store, or transmit organization-controlled information using external information systems.	The BYOD policy includes clarifying language for the expectation of privacy, requirements for litigation, e-discovery, and legal holds. The BYOD policy shall clearly state the expectations regarding the loss of non-company data in the case that a wipe of the device is required.
0	Secure cryptographic key distribution	To reduce the risks from environmental threats, hazards, and opportunities for unauthorized access, equipment shall be kept away from locations subject to high probability environmental risks and supplemented by redundant equipment located at a reasonable distance.
0	Managers shall regularly review the compliance of information processing and procedures within their area of responsibility with the appropriate security policies, standards and any other security requirements.	Ingress and egress to secure areas shall be constrained and monitored by physical access control mechanisms to ensure that only authorized personnel are allowed access.
0	The organization:  a. Develops, approves, and maintains a list of individuals with authorized access to the facility where the information system resides;  b. Issues authorization credentials for facility access;  c. Reviews the access list detailing authorized facility access by individuals [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and  d. Removes individuals from the facility access list when access is no longer required.	Business continuity and security incident response plans shall be subject to testing at planned intervals or upon significant organizational or environmental changes. Incident response plans shall involve impacted customers (tenant) and other business relationships that represent critical intra-supply chain business process dependencies.
1	Rules for the acceptable use of information and of assets associated with information and information processing facilities shall be identified, documented and implemented.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to protect wireless network environments, including the following:  • Perimeter firewalls implemented and configured to restrict unauthorized traffic  • Security settings enabled with strong encryption for authentication and transmission, replacing vendor default settings (e.g., encryption keys, passwords, and SNMP community strings)  • User access to wireless network devices restricted to authorized personnel  • The capability to detect the presence of unauthorized (rogue) wireless network devices for a timely disconnect from the network
1	All employees of the organization and contractors and third-party users shall receive appropriate awareness training and regular updates in organizational policies and procedures, as relevant for their job function.	The provider shall have a documented mobile device policy that includes a documented definition for mobile devices and the acceptable usage and requirements for all mobile devices. The provider shall post and communicate the policy and requirements through the company's security awareness and training program.
1	The organization: (a) Establishes and administers privileged user accounts in accordance with a role-based access scheme that organizes allowed information system access and privileges into roles; (b) Monitors privileged role assignments; and (c) Takes [Assignment: organization-defined actions] when privileged role assignments are no longer appropriate.	User access policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for ensuring appropriate identity, entitlement, and access management for all internal corporate and customer (tenant) users with access to data and organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) application interfaces and infrastructure network and systems components. These policies, procedures, processes, and measures must incorporate the following:  • Procedures, supporting roles, and responsibilities for provisioning and de-provisioning user account entitlements following the rule of least privilege based on job function (e.g., internal employee and contingent staff personnel changes, customer-controlled access, suppliers' business relationships, or other third-party business relationships)  • Business case considerations for higher levels of assurance and multi-factor authentication secrets (e.g., management interfaces, key generation, remote access, segregation of duties, emergency access, large-scale provisioning or geographically-distributed deployments, and personnel redundancy for critical systems)  • Access segmentation to sessions and data in multi-tenant architectures by any third party (e.g., provider and/or other customer (tenant))  • Identity trust verification and service-to-service application (API) and information processing interoperability (e.g., SSO and federation)  • Account credential lifecycle management from instantiation through revocation  • Account credential and/or identity store minimization or re-use when feasible  • Authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules for access to data and sessions (e.g., encryption and strong/multi-factor, expireable, non-shared authentication secrets)  • Permissions and supporting capabilities for customer (tenant) controls over authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules for access to data and sessions  • Adherence to applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance requirements
1	Develop usage policies for critical technologies and define proper use of these technologies.	Data and objects containing data shall be assigned a classification by the data owner based on data type, value, sensitivity, and criticality to the organization.
0	Deny communications with known malicious or unused Internet IP addresses and limit access only to trusted and necessary IP address ranges at each of the organization’s network boundaries.	Access to, and use of, audit tools that interact with the organization's information systems shall be appropriately segregated and access restricted to prevent inappropriate disclosure and tampering of log data.
1	Encrypt all non-console administrative access using strong cryptography.	Policies and procedures shall be established and maintained in support of data security to include (confidentiality, integrity, and availability) across multiple system interfaces, jurisdictions, and business functions to prevent improper disclosure, alteration, or destruction.
1	Access to program source code shall be restricted.	Policies and procedures are established for permissible storage and access of identities used for authentication to ensure identities are only accessible based on rules of least privilege and replication limitation only to users explicitly defined as business necessary.
0	Managers shall regularly review the compliance of information processing and procedures within their area of responsibility with the appropriate security policies, standards and any other security requirements.	Production and non-production environments shall be separated to prevent unauthorized access or changes to information assets. Separation of the environments may include: stateful inspection firewalls, domain/realm authentication sources, and clear segregation of duties for personnel accessing these environments as part of their job duties.
0	The information system implements transaction recovery for systems that are transaction-based.	The information system implements transaction recovery for systems that are transaction-based.
0	Monitor and control all access to data.	The organization's business leadership (or other accountable business role or function) shall review the information security policy at planned intervals or as a result of changes to the organization to ensure its continuing alignment with the security strategy, effectiveness, accuracy, relevance, and applicability to legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance obligations.
0	Ensure that there are written incident response plans that define roles of personnel as well as phases of incident handling/management.	Changes to mobile device operating systems, patch levels, and/or applications shall be managed through the company's change management processes.
1	Additional requirement for service providers only: Executive management shall establish responsibility for the protection of cardholder data and a PCI DSS compliance program to include:  Overall accountability for maintaining PCI DSS compliance  Defining a charter for a PCI DSS compliance program and communication to executive management	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for appropriate IT governance and service management to ensure appropriate planning, delivery, and support of the organization's IT capabilities supporting business functions, workforce, and/or customers based on industry acceptable standards (i.e., ITIL v4 and COBIT 5). Additionally, policies and procedures shall include defined roles and responsibilities supported by regular workforce training.
0	The organization:  a. Monitors physical access to the facility where the information system resides to detect and respond to physical security incidents;  b. Reviews physical access logs [Assignment: organization-defined frequency] and upon occurrence of [Assignment: organization-defined events or potential indications of events]; and  c. Coordinates results of reviews and investigations with the organizational incident response capability.	Information security policies and procedures shall be established and made readily available for review by all impacted personnel and external business relationships. Information security policies must be authorized by the organization's business leadership (or other accountable business role or function) and supported by a strategic business plan and an information security management program inclusive of defined information security roles and responsibilities for business leadership.
0	Render PAN unreadable anywhere it is stored (including on portable digital media, backup media, and in logs) by using any of the following approaches:  One-way hashes based on strong cryptography, (hash must be of the entire PAN)  Truncation (hashing cannot be used to replace the truncated segment of PAN)  Index tokens and pads (pads must be securely stored)  Strong cryptography with associated key-management processes and procedures.	An inventory of all mobile devices used to store and access company data shall be kept and maintained. All changes to the status of these devices (i.e., operating system and patch levels, lost or decommissioned status, and to whom the device is assigned or approved for usage (BYOD)) will be included for each device in the inventory.
0	• Detail your change control procedure and policy. This should also include the process used to re-assess risks as a result of changes and clarify whether the outputs are available to end customers.	The provider shall ensure the integrity of all virtual machine images at all times. Any changes made to virtual machine images must be logged and an alert raised regardless of their running state (e.g., dormant, off, or running). The results of a change or move of an image and the subsequent validation of the image's integrity must be immediately available to customers through electronic methods (e.g., portals or alerts).
0	The organization monitors physical intrusion alarms and surveillance equipment. 	Roles and responsibilities for performing employment termination or change in employment procedures shall be assigned, documented, and communicated.
0	The organization, upon termination of individual employment:  a. Disables information system access within [Assignment: organization-defined time period];  b. Terminates/revokes any authenticators/credentials associated with the individual;  c. Conducts exit interviews that include a discussion of [Assignment: organization-defined information security topics];  d. Retrieves all security-related organizational information system-related property;  e. Retains access to organizational information and information systems formerly controlled by terminated individual; and  f. Notifies [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles] within [Assignment: organization-defined time period].	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to inventory, document, and maintain data flows for data that is resident (permanently or temporarily) within the service's geographically distributed (physical and virtual) applications and infrastructure network and systems components and/or shared with other third parties to ascertain any regulatory, statutory, or supply chain agreement (SLA) compliance impact, and to address any other business risks associated with the data. Upon request, provider shall inform customer (tenant) of compliance impact and risk, especially if customer data is used as part of the services.
0	Maintain standard, documented security configuration standards for all authorized network devices.	Provisioning user access (e.g., employees, contractors, customers (tenants), business partners, and/or supplier relationships) to data and organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) applications, infrastructure systems, and network components shall be authorized by the organization's management prior to access being granted and appropriately restricted as per established policies and procedures. Upon request, provider shall inform customer (tenant) of this user access, especially if customer (tenant) data is used as part the service and/or customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of control.
1	When operating platforms are changed, business critical applications shall be reviewed and tested to ensure there is no adverse impact on organizational operations or security.	All cloud-based services used by the company's mobile devices or BYOD shall be pre-approved for usage and the storage of company business data.
1	· Detail policies and procedures for backup. This should include procedures for the management of removable media and methods for securely destroying media no longer required. (Depending on his business requirements, the customer may wish to put in place an independent backup strategy. This is particularly relevant where time-critical access to back-up is required.)	Policies and procedures shall be established with supporting business processes and technical measures implemented for the secure disposal and complete removal of data from all storage media, ensuring data is not recoverable by any computer forensic means.
0	Managers shall regularly review the compliance of information processing and procedures within their area of responsibility with the appropriate security policies, standards and any other security requirements.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to prevent the execution of unauthorized mobile code, defined as software transferred between systems over a trusted or untrusted network and executed on a local system without explicit installation or execution by the recipient, on organizationally-owned or managed user end-point devices (e.g., issued workstations, laptops, and mobile devices) and IT infrastructure network and systems components.
0	Restrict access to privileged user IDs to least privileges necessary to perform job responsibilities.	Executive and line management shall take formal action to support information security through clearly-documented direction and commitment, and shall ensure the action has been assigned.
1	The organization develops, documents, and implements a configuration management plan for the information system that:  a. Addresses roles, responsibilities, and configuration management processes and procedures;  b. Establishes a process for identifying configuration items throughout the system development life cycle and for managing the configuration of the configuration items;  c. Defines the configuration items for the information system and places the configuration items under configuration management; and  d. Protects the configuration management plan from unauthorized disclosure and modification.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting processes and technical measures implemented, for timely detection of vulnerabilities within organizationally-owned or managed applications, infrastructure network and system components (e.g., network vulnerability assessment, penetration testing) to ensure the efficiency of implemented security controls. A risk-based model for prioritizing remediation of identified vulnerabilities shall be used. Changes shall be managed through a change management process for all vendor-supplied patches, configuration changes, or changes to the organization's internally developed software. Upon request, the provider informs customer (tenant) of policies and procedures and identified weaknesses especially if customer (tenant) data is used as part the service and/or customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of control.
0	The organization explicitly authorizes access to [Assignment: organization-defined security functions (deployed in hardware, software, and firmware) and security-relevant information].	The BYOD policy and supporting awareness training clearly states the approved applications, application stores, and application extensions and plugins that may be used for BYOD usage.
0	Regularly compare the results from backto-back vulnerability scans to verify that vulnerabilities have been remediated in a timely manner.	The provider shall make security incident information available to all affected customers and providers periodically through electronic methods (e.g., portals).
0	The organization employs the principle of least privilege, allowing only authorized accesses for users (or processes acting on behalf of users) which are necessary to accomplish assigned tasks in accordance with organizational missions and business functions.	Authorization must be obtained prior to relocation or transfer of hardware, software, or data to an offsite premises.
1	Activation of remote-access technologies for vendors and business partners only when needed by vendors and business partners, with immediate deactivation after use	User access policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for ensuring appropriate identity, entitlement, and access management for all internal corporate and customer (tenant) users with access to data and organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) application interfaces and infrastructure network and systems components. These policies, procedures, processes, and measures must incorporate the following:  • Procedures, supporting roles, and responsibilities for provisioning and de-provisioning user account entitlements following the rule of least privilege based on job function (e.g., internal employee and contingent staff personnel changes, customer-controlled access, suppliers' business relationships, or other third-party business relationships)  • Business case considerations for higher levels of assurance and multi-factor authentication secrets (e.g., management interfaces, key generation, remote access, segregation of duties, emergency access, large-scale provisioning or geographically-distributed deployments, and personnel redundancy for critical systems)  • Access segmentation to sessions and data in multi-tenant architectures by any third party (e.g., provider and/or other customer (tenant))  • Identity trust verification and service-to-service application (API) and information processing interoperability (e.g., SSO and federation)  • Account credential lifecycle management from instantiation through revocation  • Account credential and/or identity store minimization or re-use when feasible  • Authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules for access to data and sessions (e.g., encryption and strong/multi-factor, expireable, non-shared authentication secrets)  • Permissions and supporting capabilities for customer (tenant) controls over authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules for access to data and sessions  • Adherence to applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance requirements
1	When operating platforms are changed, business critical applications shall be reviewed and tested to ensure there is no adverse impact on organizational operations or security.	The BYOD policy shall define the device and eligibility requirements to allow for BYOD usage.
0	The information system separates information flows logically or physically using [Assignment: organization-defined mechanisms and/or techniques] to accomplish [Assignment: organization- defined required separations by types of information].	Policies and procedures shall be established for the management of cryptographic keys in the service's cryptosystem (e.g., lifecycle management from key generation to revocation and replacement, public key infrastructure, cryptographic protocol design and algorithms used, access controls in place for secure key generation, and exchange and storage including segregation of keys used for encrypted data or sessions). Upon request, provider shall inform the customer (tenant) of changes within the cryptosystem, especially if the customer (tenant) data is used as part of the service, and/or the customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of the control.
0	Test data shall be selected carefully, protected and controlled.	Changes to mobile device operating systems, patch levels, and/or applications shall be managed through the company's change management processes.
0	• What assurance can the PaaS provider give that access to your data is restricted to your enterprise users and to the applications you own?	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to triage security-related events and ensure timely and thorough incident management, as per established IT service management policies and procedures.
1	The organization tracks and documents information system security incidents.	Mechanisms shall be put in place to monitor and quantify the types, volumes, and costs of information security incidents.
1	There shall be procedures in place to control the installation of software on operational systems.	The provider shall use open and published APIs to ensure support for interoperability between components and to facilitate migrating applications.
1	Remove/disable inactive user accounts within 90 days.	User access shall be authorized and revalidated for entitlement appropriateness, at planned intervals, by the organization's business leadership or other accountable business role or function supported by evidence to demonstrate the organization is adhering to the rule of least privilege based on job function. For identified access violations, remediation must follow established user access policies and procedures.
0	Store cryptographic keys in the fewest possible locations.	Baseline security requirements shall be established for developed or acquired, organizationally-owned or managed, physical or virtual, applications and infrastructure system and network components that comply with applicable legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations. Deviations from standard baseline configurations must be authorized following change management policies and procedures prior to deployment, provisioning, or use. Compliance with security baseline requirements must be reassessed at least annually unless an alternate frequency has been established and authorized based on business needs.
0	Configure monitoring systems to record network packets passing through the boundary at each of the organization’s network boundaries.	Automated equipment identification shall be used as a method of connection authentication. Location-aware technologies may be used to validate connection authentication integrity based on known equipment location.
1	Visitors are authorized before entering, and escorted at all times within, areas where cardholder data is processed or maintained.	Physical security perimeters (e.g., fences, walls, barriers, guards, gates, electronic surveillance, physical authentication mechanisms, reception desks, and security patrols) shall be implemented to safeguard sensitive data and information systems.
0	The organization:  a. Develops, documents, and disseminates to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]:    1. An identification and authentication policy that addresses purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment, coordination among organizational entities, and compliance; and    2. Procedures to facilitate the implementation of the identification and authentication policy and associated identification and authentication controls; and  b. Reviews and updates the current:    1. Identification and authentication policy [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and    2. Identification and authentication procedures [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	All personnel shall be made aware of their roles and responsibilities for:  • Maintaining awareness and compliance with established policies and procedures and applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance obligations.  • Maintaining a safe and secure working environment
1	Faults shall be logged, analyzed, and appropriate remediation action taken.	Higher levels of assurance are required for protection, retention, and lifecycle management of audit logs, adhering to applicable legal, statutory or regulatory compliance obligations and providing unique user access accountability to detect potentially suspicious network behaviors and/or file integrity anomalies, and to support forensic investigative capabilities in the event of a security breach.
1	Deploy network-based Intrusion Prevention Systems (IPS) to block malicious network traffic at each of the organization’s network boundaries.	Network environments and virtual instances shall be designed and configured to restrict and monitor traffic between trusted and untrusted connections. These configurations shall be reviewed at least annually, and supported by a documented justification for use for all allowed services, protocols, ports, and by compensating controls.
0	The organization:  a. Develops, documents, and disseminates to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]:    1. An identification and authentication policy that addresses purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment, coordination among organizational entities, and compliance; and    2. Procedures to facilitate the implementation of the identification and authentication policy and associated identification and authentication controls; and  b. Reviews and updates the current:    1. Identification and authentication policy [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and    2. Identification and authentication procedures [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	Each operating system shall be hardened to provide only necessary ports, protocols, and services to meet business needs and have in place supporting technical controls such as: antivirus, file integrity monitoring, and logging as part of their baseline operating build standard or template.
0	Protect devices that capture payment card data via direct physical interaction with the card from tampering and substitution.	Implementers shall ensure that the security vulnerability assessment tools or services accommodate the virtualization technologies used (e.g., virtualization aware).
1	Use either video cameras or access control mechanisms (or both) to monitor individual physical access to sensitive areas. Review collected data and correlate with other entries. Store for at least three months, unless otherwise restricted by law.	Ingress and egress to secure areas shall be constrained and monitored by physical access control mechanisms to ensure that only authorized personnel are allowed access.
1	The information system uniquely identifies and authenticates organizational users (or processes acting on behalf of organizational users).	Provisioning user access (e.g., employees, contractors, customers (tenants), business partners, and/or supplier relationships) to data and organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) applications, infrastructure systems, and network components shall be authorized by the organization's management prior to access being granted and appropriately restricted as per established policies and procedures. Upon request, provider shall inform customer (tenant) of this user access, especially if customer (tenant) data is used as part the service and/or customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of control.
0	Secure all individual non-console administrative access and all remote access to the CDE using multi-factor authentication.	Data related to electronic commerce (ecommerce) that traverses public networks shall be appropriately classified and protected from fraudulent activity, unauthorized disclosure, or modification in such a manner to prevent contract dispute and compromise of data.
1	The organization conducts capacity planning so that necessary capacity for information processing, telecommunications, and environmental support exists during contingency operations.	The availability, quality, and adequate capacity and resources shall be planned, prepared, and measured to deliver the required system performance in accordance with legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations. Projections of future capacity requirements shall be made to mitigate the risk of system overload.
0	The organization: a. Implements an incident handling capability for security incidents that includes preparation, detection and analysis, containment, eradication, and recovery; b. Coordinates incident handling activities with contingency planning activities; and c. Incorporates lessons learned from ongoing incident handling activities into incident response procedures, training, and testing/exercises, and implements the resulting changes accordingly.	Physical security perimeters (e.g., fences, walls, barriers, guards, gates, electronic surveillance, physical authentication mechanisms, reception desks, and security patrols) shall be implemented to safeguard sensitive data and information systems.
1	The organization:  a. Conducts an assessment of risk, including the likelihood and magnitude of harm, from the unauthorized access, use, disclosure, disruption, modification, or destruction of the information system and the information it processes, stores, or transmits;  b. Documents risk assessment results in [Selection: security plan; risk assessment report; [Assignment: organization-defined document]];  c. Reviews risk assessment results [Assignment: organization-defined frequency];  d. Disseminates risk assessment results to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]; and  e. Updates the risk assessment [Assignment: organization-defined frequency] or whenever there are significant changes to the information system or environment of operation (including the identification of new threats and vulnerabilities), or other conditions that may impact the security state of the system.	Physical protection against damage from natural causes and disasters, as well as deliberate attacks, including fire, flood, atmospheric electrical discharge, solar induced geomagnetic storm, wind, earthquake, tsunami, explosion, nuclear accident, volcanic activity, biological hazard, civil unrest, mudslide, tectonic activity, and other forms of natural or man-made disaster shall be anticipated, designed, and have countermeasures applied.
0	• Encryption can be used in multiple places − where is it used? o data in transit o data at rest o data in processor or memory? 	Business continuity and security incident response plans shall be subject to testing at planned intervals or upon significant organizational or environmental changes. Incident response plans shall involve impacted customers (tenant) and other business relationships that represent critical intra-supply chain business process dependencies.
0	The organization employs temperature and humidity monitoring that provides an alarm or notification of changes potentially harmful to personnel or equipment. 	The organization employs temperature and humidity monitoring that provides an alarm or notification of changes potentially harmful to personnel or equipment. 
1	Physical and logical access to diagnostic and configuration ports shall be controlled.	User access to diagnostic and configuration ports shall be restricted to authorized individuals and applications.
0	The organization:  a. Develops, documents, and disseminates to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]:    1. A system maintenance policy that addresses purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment, coordination among organizational entities, and compliance; and    2. Procedures to facilitate the implementation of the system maintenance policy and associated system maintenance controls; and  b. Reviews and updates the current:    1. System maintenance policy [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and    2. System maintenance procedures [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	Policies and procedures shall be established for the secure disposal of equipment (by asset type) used outside the organization's premises. This shall include a wiping solution or destruction process that renders recovery of information impossible. The erasure shall consist of a full overwrite of the drive to ensure that the erased drive is released to inventory for reuse and deployment, or securely stored until it can be destroyed.
1	Initialization, stopping, or pausing of the audit logs	Higher levels of assurance are required for protection, retention, and lifecycle management of audit logs, adhering to applicable legal, statutory or regulatory compliance obligations and providing unique user access accountability to detect potentially suspicious network behaviors and/or file integrity anomalies, and to support forensic investigative capabilities in the event of a security breach.
0	Access points such as delivery and loading areas and other points where unauthorized persons could enter the premises shall be controlled and, if possible, isolated from information processing facilities to avoid unauthorized access.	Data and objects containing data shall be assigned a classification by the data owner based on data type, value, sensitivity, and criticality to the organization.
0	Ensure that all systems that store logs have adequate storage space for the logs generated.	Roles and responsibilities of contractors, employees, and third-party users shall be documented as they relate to information assets and security.
0	The organization stores backup copies of [Assignment: organization-defined critical information system software and other security-related information] in a separate facility or in a fire-rated container that is not collocated with the operational system.	The organization stores backup copies of [Assignment: organization-defined critical information system software and other security-related information] in a separate facility or in a fire-rated container that is not collocated with the operational system.
1	Prohibit direct public access between the Internet and any system component in the cardholder data environment.	Network environments and virtual instances shall be designed and configured to restrict and monitor traffic between trusted and untrusted connections. These configurations shall be reviewed at least annually, and supported by a documented justification for use for all allowed services, protocols, ports, and by compensating controls.
0	Administer user accounts, including additions, deletions, and modifications.	Access to all hypervisor management functions or administrative consoles for systems hosting virtualized systems shall be restricted to personnel based upon the principle of least privilege and supported through technical controls (e.g., two-factor authentication, audit trails, IP address filtering, firewalls, and TLS encapsulated communications to the administrative consoles).
0	The information system conforms to FICAM-issued profiles.	Anti-malware awareness training, specific to mobile devices, shall be included in the provider's information security awareness training.
0	The organization:  a. Reviews and analyzes information system audit records [Assignment: organization-defined frequency] for indications of [Assignment: organization-defined inappropriate or unusual activity]; and  b. Reports findings to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles].	User access policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for restricting user access as per defined segregation of duties to address business risks associated with a user-role conflict of interest.
0	Send the media by secured courier or other delivery method that can be accurately tracked.	Send the media by secured courier or other delivery method that can be accurately tracked.
0	The organization requires the developer of the information system, system component, or information system service to:  a. Create and implement a security assessment plan;  b. Perform [Selection (one or more): unit; integration; system; regression] testing/evaluation at [Assignment: organization-defined depth and coverage];  c. Produce evidence of the execution of the security assessment plan and the results of the security testing/evaluation;  d. Implement a verifiable flaw remediation process; and  e. Correct flaws identified during security testing/evaluation.	A formal disciplinary or sanction policy shall be established for employees who have violated security policies and procedures. Employees shall be made aware of what action might be taken in the event of a violation, and disciplinary measures must be stated in the policies and procedures.
0	Encrypt all sensitive information at rest using a tool that requires a secondary authentication mechanism not integrated into the operating system, in order to access the information.	The BYOD policy includes clarifying language for the expectation of privacy, requirements for litigation, e-discovery, and legal holds. The BYOD policy shall clearly state the expectations regarding the loss of non-company data in the case that a wipe of the device is required.
0	Assets maintained in the inventory shall be owned.	Network environments and virtual instances shall be designed and configured to restrict and monitor traffic between trusted and untrusted connections. These configurations shall be reviewed at least annually, and supported by a documented justification for use for all allowed services, protocols, ports, and by compensating controls.
0	The organization reviews and updates the audited events [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	The organization reviews and updates the audited events [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].
1	When operating platforms are changed, business critical applications shall be reviewed and tested to ensure there is no adverse impact on organizational operations or security.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting processes and technical measures implemented, for timely detection of vulnerabilities within organizationally-owned or managed applications, infrastructure network and system components (e.g., network vulnerability assessment, penetration testing) to ensure the efficiency of implemented security controls. A risk-based model for prioritizing remediation of identified vulnerabilities shall be used. Changes shall be managed through a change management process for all vendor-supplied patches, configuration changes, or changes to the organization's internally developed software. Upon request, the provider informs customer (tenant) of policies and procedures and identified weaknesses especially if customer (tenant) data is used as part the service and/or customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of control.
1	• Is the cloud provider interoperable with third party identity providers?	Policies, procedures, and mutually-agreed upon provisions and/or terms shall be established to satisfy customer (tenant) requirements for service-to-service application (API) and information processing interoperability, and portability for application development and information exchange, usage, and integrity persistence.
1	The organization permits authorized individuals to use an external information system to access the information system or to process, store, or transmit organization-controlled information only when the organization:  (a)   Verifies the implementation of required security controls on the external system as specified in the organization’s information security policy and security plan; or  (b)   Retains approved information system connection or processing agreements with the organizational entity hosting the external information system.	Password policies, applicable to mobile devices, shall be documented and enforced through technical controls on all company devices or devices approved for BYOD usage, and shall prohibit the changing of password/PIN lengths and authentication requirements.
0	The organization limits the number of external network connections to the information system.	Requirements for non-disclosure or confidentiality agreements reflecting the organization's needs for the protection of data and operational details shall be identified, documented, and reviewed at planned intervals.
0	Managers shall regularly review the compliance of information processing and procedures within their area of responsibility with the appropriate security policies, standards and any other security requirements.	A consistent unified framework for business continuity planning and plan development shall be established, documented, and adopted to ensure all business continuity plans are consistent in addressing priorities for testing, maintenance, and information security requirements.  Requirements for business continuity plans include the following:  • Defined purpose and scope, aligned with relevant dependencies  • Accessible to and understood by those who will use them  • Owned by a named person(s) who is responsible for their review, update, and approval  • Defined lines of communication, roles, and responsibilities  • Detailed recovery procedures, manual work-around, and reference information  • Method for plan invocation
0	Use either video cameras or access control mechanisms (or both) to monitor individual physical access to sensitive areas. Review collected data and correlate with other entries. Store for at least three months, unless otherwise restricted by law.	The provider shall have a documented mobile device policy that includes a documented definition for mobile devices and the acceptable usage and requirements for all mobile devices. The provider shall post and communicate the policy and requirements through the company's security awareness and training program.
0	An access control policy shall be established, documented and reviewed based on business and information security requirements.	Risk assessment results shall include updates to security policies, procedures, standards, and controls to ensure that they remain relevant and effective.
0	The organization:  a. Develops an incident response plan that:    1. Provides the organization with a roadmap for implementing its incident response capability;    2. Describes the structure and organization of the incident response capability;    3. Provides a high-level approach for how the incident response capability fits into the overall organization;    4. Meets the unique requirements of the organization, which relate to mission, size, structure, and functions;    5. Defines reportable incidents;    6. Provides metrics for measuring the incident response capability within the organization;    7. Defines the resources and management support needed to effectively maintain and mature an incident response capability; and    8. Is reviewed and approved by [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles];  b. Distributes copies of the incident response plan to [Assignment: organization-defined incident response personnel (identified by name and/or by role) and organizational elements];  c. Reviews the incident response plan [Assignment: organization-defined frequency];  d. Updates the incident response plan to address system/organizational changes or problems encountered during plan implementation, execution, or testing;   e. Communicates incident response plan changes to [Assignment: organization-defined incident response personnel (identified by name and/or by role) and organizational elements]; and f. Protects the incident response plan from unauthorized disclosure and modification.	All mobile devices permitted for use through the company BYOD program or a company-assigned mobile device shall allow for remote wipe by the company's corporate IT or shall have all company-provided data wiped by the company's corporate IT.
0	Access to all audit trails	The mobile device policy shall require the BYOD user to perform backups of data, prohibit the usage of unapproved application stores, and require the use of anti-malware software (where supported).
1	The organization:  a. Develops, documents, and disseminates to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]:    1. A physical and environmental protection policy that addresses purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment, coordination among organizational entities, and compliance; and    2. Procedures to facilitate the implementation of the physical and environmental protection policy and associated physical and environmental protection controls; and  b. Reviews and updates the current:    1. Physical and environmental protection policy [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and    2. Physical and environmental protection procedures [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	Information security policies and procedures shall be established and made readily available for review by all impacted personnel and external business relationships. Information security policies must be authorized by the organization's business leadership (or other accountable business role or function) and supported by a strategic business plan and an information security management program inclusive of defined information security roles and responsibilities for business leadership.
0	On a regular basis, tune your SIEM system to better identify actionable events and decrease event noise.	On a regular basis, tune your SIEM system to better identify actionable events and decrease event noise.
0	When operating platforms are changed, business critical applications shall be reviewed and tested to ensure there is no adverse impact on organizational operations or security.	Utility programs capable of potentially overriding system, object, network, virtual machine, and application controls shall be restricted.
0	The organization:  a. Separates [Assignment: organization-defined duties of individuals];  b. Documents separation of duties of individuals; and  c. Defines information system access authorizations to support separation of duties.	Internal corporate or customer (tenant) user account credentials shall be restricted as per the following, ensuring appropriate identity, entitlement, and access management and in accordance with established policies and procedures:  • Identity trust verification and service-to-service application (API) and information processing interoperability (e.g., SSO and Federation)  • Account credential lifecycle management from instantiation through revocation  • Account credential and/or identity store minimization or re-use when feasible  • Adherence to industry acceptable and/or regulatory compliant authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules (e.g., strong/multi-factor, expireable, non-shared authentication secrets)
0	The organization:  (a)   Identifies [Assignment: organization-defined software programs authorized to execute on the information system];  (b)   Employs a deny-all, permit-by-exception policy to allow the execution of authorized software programs on the information system; and  (c)   Reviews and updates the list of authorized software programs [Assignment: organization- defined frequency].	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for the use of encryption protocols for protection of sensitive data in storage (e.g., file servers, databases, and end-user workstations), data in use (memory), and data in transmission (e.g., system interfaces, over public networks, and electronic messaging) as per applicable legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations.
0	Assign access based on individual personnel’s job classification and function.	An Information Security Management Program (ISMP) shall be developed, documented, approved, and implemented that includes administrative, technical, and physical safeguards to protect assets and data from loss, misuse, unauthorized access, disclosure, alteration, and destruction. The security program shall include, but not be limited to, the following areas insofar as they relate to the characteristics of the business:  • Risk management  • Security policy  • Organization of information security  • Asset management  • Human resources security  • Physical and environmental security  • Communications and operations management  • Access control  • Information systems acquisition, development, and maintenance
0	The information system implements multifactor authentication for remote access to privileged and non-privileged accounts such that one of the factors is provided by a device separate from the system gaining access and the device meets [Assignment: organization-defined strength of mechanism requirements].	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for appropriate IT governance and service management to ensure appropriate planning, delivery, and support of the organization's IT capabilities supporting business functions, workforce, and/or customers based on industry acceptable standards (i.e., ITIL v4 and COBIT 5). Additionally, policies and procedures shall include defined roles and responsibilities supported by regular workforce training.
1	The organization identifies potential accessibility problems to the alternate processing site in the event of an area-wide disruption or disaster and outlines explicit mitigation actions.	Physical protection against damage from natural causes and disasters, as well as deliberate attacks, including fire, flood, atmospheric electrical discharge, solar induced geomagnetic storm, wind, earthquake, tsunami, explosion, nuclear accident, volcanic activity, biological hazard, civil unrest, mudslide, tectonic activity, and other forms of natural or man-made disaster shall be anticipated, designed, and have countermeasures applied.
0	Entities with existing implementations (other than as allowed in A2.1) that use SSL and/or early TLS must have a formal Risk Mitigation and Migration Plan in place.	Entities with existing implementations (other than as allowed in A2.1) that use SSL and/or early TLS must have a formal Risk Mitigation and Migration Plan in place.
1	• Is user directory data exportable in an interoperable format?	User access policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for ensuring appropriate identity, entitlement, and access management for all internal corporate and customer (tenant) users with access to data and organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) application interfaces and infrastructure network and systems components. These policies, procedures, processes, and measures must incorporate the following:  • Procedures, supporting roles, and responsibilities for provisioning and de-provisioning user account entitlements following the rule of least privilege based on job function (e.g., internal employee and contingent staff personnel changes, customer-controlled access, suppliers' business relationships, or other third-party business relationships)  • Business case considerations for higher levels of assurance and multi-factor authentication secrets (e.g., management interfaces, key generation, remote access, segregation of duties, emergency access, large-scale provisioning or geographically-distributed deployments, and personnel redundancy for critical systems)  • Access segmentation to sessions and data in multi-tenant architectures by any third party (e.g., provider and/or other customer (tenant))  • Identity trust verification and service-to-service application (API) and information processing interoperability (e.g., SSO and federation)  • Account credential lifecycle management from instantiation through revocation  • Account credential and/or identity store minimization or re-use when feasible  • Authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules for access to data and sessions (e.g., encryption and strong/multi-factor, expireable, non-shared authentication secrets)  • Permissions and supporting capabilities for customer (tenant) controls over authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules for access to data and sessions  • Adherence to applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance requirements
0	Where multi-factor authentication is not supported (such as local administrator, root, or service accounts), accounts will use passwords that are unique to that system.	Keys must have identifiable owners (binding keys to identities) and there shall be key management policies.
1	The allocation of secret authentication information shall be controlled through a formal management process.	Policies and procedures shall be established to store and manage identity information about every person who accesses IT infrastructure and to determine their level of access. Policies shall also be developed to control access to network resources based on user identity.
1	The organization:  a. Develops, documents, and disseminates to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]:    1. A physical and environmental protection policy that addresses purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment, coordination among organizational entities, and compliance; and    2. Procedures to facilitate the implementation of the physical and environmental protection policy and associated physical and environmental protection controls; and  b. Reviews and updates the current:    1. Physical and environmental protection policy [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and    2. Physical and environmental protection procedures [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	The organization's business leadership (or other accountable business role or function) shall review the information security policy at planned intervals or as a result of changes to the organization to ensure its continuing alignment with the security strategy, effectiveness, accuracy, relevance, and applicability to legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance obligations.
1	• Is your air-conditioning capable of supporting your environment? o How often is it tested? 	Data center utilities services and environmental conditions (e.g., water, power, temperature and humidity controls, telecommunications, and internet connectivity) shall be secured, monitored, maintained, and tested for continual effectiveness at planned intervals to ensure protection from unauthorized interception or damage, and designed with automated fail-over or other redundancies in the event of planned or unplanned disruptions.
0	Implement processes to test for the presence of wireless access points (802.11), and detect and identify all authorized and unauthorized wireless access points on a quarterly basis.	Password policies, applicable to mobile devices, shall be documented and enforced through technical controls on all company devices or devices approved for BYOD usage, and shall prohibit the changing of password/PIN lengths and authentication requirements.
0	The information system requests and performs data origin authentication and data integrity verification on the name/address resolution responses the system receives from authoritative sources.	The information system requests and performs data origin authentication and data integrity verification on the name/address resolution responses the system receives from authoritative sources.
1	The organization:  a. Develops, documents, and disseminates to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]:    1. A security planning policy that addresses purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment, coordination among organizational entities, and compliance; and    2. Procedures to facilitate the implementation of the security planning policy and associated security planning controls; and  b. Reviews and updates the current:    1. Security planning policy [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and    2. Security planning procedures [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for appropriate IT governance and service management to ensure appropriate planning, delivery, and support of the organization's IT capabilities supporting business functions, workforce, and/or customers based on industry acceptable standards (i.e., ITIL v4 and COBIT 5). Additionally, policies and procedures shall include defined roles and responsibilities supported by regular workforce training.
0	The information system automatically disables inactive accounts after [Assignment: organization-defined time period]. 	Network environments and virtual instances shall be designed and configured to restrict and monitor traffic between trusted and untrusted connections. These configurations shall be reviewed at least annually, and supported by a documented justification for use for all allowed services, protocols, ports, and by compensating controls.
1	Managers shall regularly review the compliance of information processing and procedures within their area of responsibility with the appropriate security policies, standards and any other security requirements.	External business partners shall adhere to the same policies and procedures for change management, release, and testing as internal developers within the organization (e.g., ITIL service management processes).
1	Managers shall regularly review the compliance of information processing and procedures within their area of responsibility with the appropriate security policies, standards and any other security requirements.	Access to all hypervisor management functions or administrative consoles for systems hosting virtualized systems shall be restricted to personnel based upon the principle of least privilege and supported through technical controls (e.g., two-factor authentication, audit trails, IP address filtering, firewalls, and TLS encapsulated communications to the administrative consoles).
0	When operating platforms are changed, business critical applications shall be reviewed and tested to ensure there is no adverse impact on organizational operations or security.	Managers are responsible for maintaining awareness of, and complying with, security policies, procedures, and standards that are relevant to their area of responsibility.
0	Injection flaws, particularly SQL injection. Also consider OS Command Injection, LDAP and XPath injection flaws as well as other injection flaws.	Policies and procedures shall be established and maintained in support of data security to include (confidentiality, integrity, and availability) across multiple system interfaces, jurisdictions, and business functions to prevent improper disclosure, alteration, or destruction.
1	Information security events shall be reported through appropriate communications channels as quickly as possible. All employees, contractors and third-party users shall be made aware of their responsibility to report any information security events as quickly as possible.	Proper forensic procedures, including chain of custody, are required for the presentation of evidence to support potential legal action subject to the relevant jurisdiction after an information security incident. Upon notification, customers and/or other external business partners impacted by a security breach shall be given the opportunity to participate as is legally permissible in the forensic investigation.
0	Manage the network infrastructure across network connections that are separated from the business use of that network, relying on separate VLANs or, preferably, on entirely different physical connectivity for management sessions for network devices.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to prevent the execution of malware on organizationally-owned or managed user end-point devices (i.e., issued workstations, laptops, and mobile devices) and IT infrastructure network and systems components.
1	o Does the provider carry out vulnerability testing? How often?	Independent reviews and assessments shall be performed at least annually to ensure that the organization addresses nonconformities of established policies, standards, procedures, and compliance obligations.
1	Management shall require employees, and where applicable, contractors and third-party users, to apply security in accordance with established policies and procedures of the organization.	The BYOD policy includes clarifying language for the expectation of privacy, requirements for litigation, e-discovery, and legal holds. The BYOD policy shall clearly state the expectations regarding the loss of non-company data in the case that a wipe of the device is required.
1	Password management systems shall be interactive and shall ensure quality passwords.	Policies and procedures are established for permissible storage and access of identities used for authentication to ensure identities are only accessible based on rules of least privilege and replication limitation only to users explicitly defined as business necessary.
0	The organization documents in the security plan for the information system, the policies and procedures for the establishment and use of nonlocal maintenance and diagnostic connections. 	The BYOD policy shall define the device and eligibility requirements to allow for BYOD usage.
0	Disable peer-to-peer (ad hoc) wireless network capabilities on wireless clients.	A centralized, mobile device management solution shall be deployed to all mobile devices permitted to store, transmit, or process customer data.
0	Ensure that only authorized scripting languages are able to run in all web browsers and email clients.	Aligned with the enterprise-wide framework, formal risk assessments shall be performed at least annually or at planned intervals, (and in conjunction with any changes to information systems) to determine the likelihood and impact of all identified risks using qualitative and quantitative methods. The likelihood and impact associated with inherent and residual risk shall be determined independently, considering all risk categories (e.g., audit results, threat and vulnerability analysis, and regulatory compliance).
1	The organization employs automated mechanisms to maintain an up-to-date, complete, accurate, and readily available baseline configuration of the information system.	The company shall have a documented application validation process to test for mobile device, operating system, and application compatibility issues.
1	The organization develops, documents, and implements a configuration management plan for the information system that:  a. Addresses roles, responsibilities, and configuration management processes and procedures;  b. Establishes a process for identifying configuration items throughout the system development life cycle and for managing the configuration of the configuration items;  c. Defines the configuration items for the information system and places the configuration items under configuration management; and  d. Protects the configuration management plan from unauthorized disclosure and modification.	The provider shall ensure the integrity of all virtual machine images at all times. Any changes made to virtual machine images must be logged and an alert raised regardless of their running state (e.g., dormant, off, or running). The results of a change or move of an image and the subsequent validation of the image's integrity must be immediately available to customers through electronic methods (e.g., portals or alerts).
1	The organization:  a. Physically controls and securely stores [Assignment: organization-defined types of digital and/or non-digital media] within [Assignment: organization-defined controlled areas]; and  b. Protects information system media until the media are destroyed or sanitized using approved equipment, techniques, and procedures.	Physical access to information assets and functions by users and support personnel shall be restricted.
0	Documentation of impact.	Production and non-production environments shall be separated to prevent unauthorized access or changes to information assets. Separation of the environments may include: stateful inspection firewalls, domain/realm authentication sources, and clear segregation of duties for personnel accessing these environments as part of their job duties.
0	• Is the hardened virtual image protected from unauthorized access?	Points of contact for applicable regulation authorities, national and local law enforcement, and other legal jurisdictional authorities shall be maintained and regularly updated (e.g., change in impacted-scope and/or a change in any compliance obligation) to ensure direct compliance liaisons have been established and to be prepared for a forensic investigation requiring rapid engagement with law enforcement.
0	Regularly compare the results from backto-back vulnerability scans to verify that vulnerabilities have been remediated in a timely manner.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to triage security-related events and ensure timely and thorough incident management, as per established IT service management policies and procedures.
1	Do not store the card verification code or value (three-digit or four-digit number printed on the front or back of a payment card used to verify card-not- present transactions) after authorization.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for defining and adhering to the retention period of any critical asset as per established policies and procedures, as well as applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance obligations. Backup and recovery measures shall be incorporated as part of business continuity planning and tested accordingly for effectiveness.
0	The organization conducts capacity planning so that necessary capacity for information processing, telecommunications, and environmental support exists during contingency operations.	Risks shall be mitigated to an acceptable level. Acceptance levels based on risk criteria shall be established and documented in accordance with reasonable resolution time frames and stakeholder approval.
0	Establish and implement firewall and router configuration standards that include the following:	User access shall be authorized and revalidated for entitlement appropriateness, at planned intervals, by the organization's business leadership or other accountable business role or function supported by evidence to demonstrate the organization is adhering to the rule of least privilege based on job function. For identified access violations, remediation must follow established user access policies and procedures.
1	• Detail your change control procedure and policy. This should also include the process used to re-assess risks as a result of changes and clarify whether the outputs are available to end customers.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to ensure the development and/or acquisition of new data, physical or virtual applications, infrastructure network, and systems components, or any corporate, operations and/or data center facilities have been pre-authorized by the organization's business leadership or other accountable business role or function.
1	All relevant legislative statutory, regulatory, contractual requirements and the organization's approach to meet these requirements shall be explicitly identified, documented and kept up to date for each information system and the organization.	Policies, procedures, and mutually-agreed upon provisions and/or terms shall be established to satisfy customer (tenant) requirements for service-to-service application (API) and information processing interoperability, and portability for application development and information exchange, usage, and integrity persistence.
1	The organization shall establish, document, implement and maintain processes, procedures and controls to ensure the required level of continuity for information security during an adverse situation.	A consistent unified framework for business continuity planning and plan development shall be established, documented, and adopted to ensure all business continuity plans are consistent in addressing priorities for testing, maintenance, and information security requirements.  Requirements for business continuity plans include the following:  • Defined purpose and scope, aligned with relevant dependencies  • Accessible to and understood by those who will use them  • Owned by a named person(s) who is responsible for their review, update, and approval  • Defined lines of communication, roles, and responsibilities  • Detailed recovery procedures, manual work-around, and reference information  • Method for plan invocation
1	The organization employs the principle of least privilege, allowing only authorized accesses for users (or processes acting on behalf of users) which are necessary to accomplish assigned tasks in accordance with organizational missions and business functions.	Access to, and use of, audit tools that interact with the organization's information systems shall be appropriately segregated and access restricted to prevent inappropriate disclosure and tampering of log data.
0	Prohibit direct public access between the Internet and any system component in the cardholder data environment.	Physical protection against damage from natural causes and disasters, as well as deliberate attacks, including fire, flood, atmospheric electrical discharge, solar induced geomagnetic storm, wind, earthquake, tsunami, explosion, nuclear accident, volcanic activity, biological hazard, civil unrest, mudslide, tectonic activity, and other forms of natural or man-made disaster shall be anticipated, designed, and have countermeasures applied.
0	Deploy a change-detection mechanism (for example, file-integrity monitoring tools) to alert personnel to unauthorized modification (including changes, additions, and deletions) of critical system files, configuration files, or content files; and configure the software to perform critical file comparisons at least weekly.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to inventory, document, and maintain data flows for data that is resident (permanently or temporarily) within the service's geographically distributed (physical and virtual) applications and infrastructure network and systems components and/or shared with other third parties to ascertain any regulatory, statutory, or supply chain agreement (SLA) compliance impact, and to address any other business risks associated with the data. Upon request, provider shall inform customer (tenant) of compliance impact and risk, especially if customer data is used as part of the services.
0	When operating platforms are changed, business critical applications shall be reviewed and tested to ensure there is no adverse impact on organizational operations or security.	Employment agreements shall incorporate provisions and/or terms for adherence to established information governance and security policies and must be signed by newly hired or on-boarded workforce personnel (e.g., full or part-time employee or contingent staff) prior to granting workforce personnel user access to corporate facilities, resources, and assets.
0	The information system requests and performs data origin authentication and data integrity verification on the name/address resolution responses the system receives from authoritative sources.	The mobile device policy shall prohibit the circumvention of built-in security controls on mobile devices (e.g., jailbreaking or rooting) and shall enforce the prohibition through detective and preventative controls on the device or through a centralized device management system (e.g., mobile device management).
1	The implementation of changes, including patches, service packs, and other updates and modifications, shall be controlled by the use of formal change control procedures.	Policies and procedures shall be established for managing the risks associated with applying changes to:  • Business-critical or customer (tenant)-impacting (physical and virtual) applications and system-system interface (API) designs and configurations.  • Infrastructure network and systems components. Technical measures shall be implemented to provide assurance that all changes directly correspond to a registered change request, business-critical or customer (tenant), and/or authorization by, the customer (tenant) as per agreement (SLA) prior to deployment.
1	Data input to applications and databases shall be validated to ensure that this data is correct and appropriate.	Data input and output integrity routines (i.e., reconciliation and edit checks) shall be implemented for application interfaces and databases to prevent manual or systematic processing errors, corruption of data, or misuse.
1	Security roles and responsibilities of employees, contractors and third-party users shall be defined and documented in accordance with the organization's information security policy.	Roles and responsibilities of contractors, employees, and third-party users shall be documented as they relate to information assets and security.
1	Disable peer-to-peer (ad hoc) wireless network capabilities on wireless clients.	Network environments and virtual instances shall be designed and configured to restrict and monitor traffic between trusted and untrusted connections. These configurations shall be reviewed at least annually, and supported by a documented justification for use for all allowed services, protocols, ports, and by compensating controls.
1	Assets maintained in the inventory shall be owned.	All data shall be designated with stewardship, with assigned responsibilities defined, documented, and communicated.
1	Current network diagram that identifies all connections between the cardholder data environment and other networks, including any wireless networks	Network environments and virtual instances shall be designed and configured to restrict and monitor traffic between trusted and untrusted connections. These configurations shall be reviewed at least annually, and supported by a documented justification for use for all allowed services, protocols, ports, and by compensating controls.
1	• Is the virtual network infrastructure used by cloud providers (in PVLANs and VLAN tagging 802.1q architecture) secured to vendor and/or best practice specific standards (e.g., are MAC spoofing, ARP poisoning attacks, etc, prevented via a specific security configuration)?	Higher levels of assurance are required for protection, retention, and lifecycle management of audit logs, adhering to applicable legal, statutory or regulatory compliance obligations and providing unique user access accountability to detect potentially suspicious network behaviors and/or file integrity anomalies, and to support forensic investigative capabilities in the event of a security breach.
1	Maintain standard, documented security configuration standards for all authorized network devices.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to protect wireless network environments, including the following:  • Perimeter firewalls implemented and configured to restrict unauthorized traffic  • Security settings enabled with strong encryption for authentication and transmission, replacing vendor default settings (e.g., encryption keys, passwords, and SNMP community strings)  • User access to wireless network devices restricted to authorized personnel  • The capability to detect the presence of unauthorized (rogue) wireless network devices for a timely disconnect from the network
0	All relevant legislative statutory, regulatory, contractual requirements and the organization's approach to meet these requirements shall be explicitly identified, documented and kept up to date for each information system and the organization.	Physical access to information assets and functions by users and support personnel shall be restricted.
1	Management shall require all employees and contractors to apply information security in accordance with the established policies and procedures of the organization.	Managers are responsible for maintaining awareness of, and complying with, security policies, procedures, and standards that are relevant to their area of responsibility.
1	A list of all such devices and personnel with access	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to inventory, document, and maintain data flows for data that is resident (permanently or temporarily) within the service's geographically distributed (physical and virtual) applications and infrastructure network and systems components and/or shared with other third parties to ascertain any regulatory, statutory, or supply chain agreement (SLA) compliance impact, and to address any other business risks associated with the data. Upon request, provider shall inform customer (tenant) of compliance impact and risk, especially if customer data is used as part of the services.
0	o Does the provider offer the customer (upon request) a forensic image of the virtual machine?	Risk assessments associated with data governance requirements shall be conducted at planned intervals and shall consider the following:  • Awareness of where sensitive data is stored and transmitted across applications, databases, servers, and network infrastructure  • Compliance with defined retention periods and end-of-life disposal requirements  • Data classification and protection from unauthorized use, access, loss, destruction, and falsification
0	Information processing facilities shall be implemented with redundancy sufficient to meet availability requirements.	Information processing facilities shall be implemented with redundancy sufficient to meet availability requirements.
0	To set up efficient internal complaint handling and redress procedures for use by data subjects.	Policies and procedures shall be established to store and manage identity information about every person who accesses IT infrastructure and to determine their level of access. Policies shall also be developed to control access to network resources based on user identity.
1	The organization manages information system identifiers by:  a. Receiving authorization from [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles] to assign an individual, group, role, or device identifier;  b. Selecting an identifier that identifies an individual, group, role, or device;  c. Assigning the identifier to the intended individual, group, role, or device;  d. Preventing reuse of identifiers for [Assignment: organization-defined time period]; and  e. Disabling the identifier after [Assignment: organization-defined time period of inactivity].	User access policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for ensuring appropriate identity, entitlement, and access management for all internal corporate and customer (tenant) users with access to data and organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) application interfaces and infrastructure network and systems components. These policies, procedures, processes, and measures must incorporate the following:  • Procedures, supporting roles, and responsibilities for provisioning and de-provisioning user account entitlements following the rule of least privilege based on job function (e.g., internal employee and contingent staff personnel changes, customer-controlled access, suppliers' business relationships, or other third-party business relationships)  • Business case considerations for higher levels of assurance and multi-factor authentication secrets (e.g., management interfaces, key generation, remote access, segregation of duties, emergency access, large-scale provisioning or geographically-distributed deployments, and personnel redundancy for critical systems)  • Access segmentation to sessions and data in multi-tenant architectures by any third party (e.g., provider and/or other customer (tenant))  • Identity trust verification and service-to-service application (API) and information processing interoperability (e.g., SSO and federation)  • Account credential lifecycle management from instantiation through revocation  • Account credential and/or identity store minimization or re-use when feasible  • Authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules for access to data and sessions (e.g., encryption and strong/multi-factor, expireable, non-shared authentication secrets)  • Permissions and supporting capabilities for customer (tenant) controls over authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules for access to data and sessions  • Adherence to applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance requirements
1	When operating platforms are changed, business critical applications shall be reviewed and tested to ensure there is no adverse impact on organizational operations or security.	Aligned with the enterprise-wide framework, formal risk assessments shall be performed at least annually or at planned intervals, (and in conjunction with any changes to information systems) to determine the likelihood and impact of all identified risks using qualitative and quantitative methods. The likelihood and impact associated with inherent and residual risk shall be determined independently, considering all risk categories (e.g., audit results, threat and vulnerability analysis, and regulatory compliance).
1	Improper access control (such as insecure direct object references, failure to restrict URL access, directory traversal, and failure to restrict user access to functions).	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for the use of encryption protocols for protection of sensitive data in storage (e.g., file servers, databases, and end-user workstations), data in use (memory), and data in transmission (e.g., system interfaces, over public networks, and electronic messaging) as per applicable legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations.
0	Develop usage policies for critical technologies and define proper use of these technologies.	Mechanisms shall be put in place to monitor and quantify the types, volumes, and costs of information security incidents.
1	Develop configuration standards for all system components. Assure that these standards address all known security vulnerabilities and are consistent with industry-accepted system hardening standards.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting processes and technical measures implemented, for timely detection of vulnerabilities within organizationally-owned or managed applications, infrastructure network and system components (e.g., network vulnerability assessment, penetration testing) to ensure the efficiency of implemented security controls. A risk-based model for prioritizing remediation of identified vulnerabilities shall be used. Changes shall be managed through a change management process for all vendor-supplied patches, configuration changes, or changes to the organization's internally developed software. Upon request, the provider informs customer (tenant) of policies and procedures and identified weaknesses especially if customer (tenant) data is used as part the service and/or customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of control.
1	The information system protects the [Selection (one or more): confidentiality; integrity] of transmitted information.	Secured and encrypted communication channels shall be used when migrating physical servers, applications, or data to virtualized servers and, where possible, shall use a network segregated from production-level networks for such migrations.
0	To ensure a consistent and effective approach to the management of information security incidents, including communication on security events and weaknesses.	A centralized, mobile device management solution shall be deployed to all mobile devices permitted to store, transmit, or process customer data.
0	Ensure that security policies and operational procedures for identification and authentication are documented, in use, and known to all affected parties.	All mobile devices permitted for use through the company BYOD program or a company-assigned mobile device shall allow for remote wipe by the company's corporate IT or shall have all company-provided data wiped by the company's corporate IT.
0	To monitor and audit PII protection controls and the effectiveness of internal PII protection policy.	To monitor and audit PII protection controls and the effectiveness of internal PII protection policy.
1	The organization:  a. Develops, documents, and disseminates to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]:    1. A contingency planning policy that addresses purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment, coordination among organizational entities, and compliance; and    2. Procedures to facilitate the implementation of the contingency planning policy and associated contingency planning controls; and  b. Reviews and updates the current:    1. Contingency planning policy [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and    2. Contingency planning procedures [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for appropriate IT governance and service management to ensure appropriate planning, delivery, and support of the organization's IT capabilities supporting business functions, workforce, and/or customers based on industry acceptable standards (i.e., ITIL v4 and COBIT 5). Additionally, policies and procedures shall include defined roles and responsibilities supported by regular workforce training.
0	The organization includes in the rules of behavior, explicit restrictions on the use of social media/networking sites and posting organizational information on public websites.	Providers shall assure reasonable information security across their information supply chain by performing an annual review. The review shall include all partners/third party-providers upon which their information supply chain depends on.
0	Passwords shall be controlled through a formal management process.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for the use of encryption protocols for protection of sensitive data in storage (e.g., file servers, databases, and end-user workstations), data in use (memory), and data in transmission (e.g., system interfaces, over public networks, and electronic messaging) as per applicable legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations.
0	To ensure the protection of information in networks and its supporting information processing facilities.	Utility programs capable of potentially overriding system, object, network, virtual machine, and application controls shall be restricted.
0	Physically secure all media.	Aligned with the enterprise-wide framework, formal risk assessments shall be performed at least annually or at planned intervals, (and in conjunction with any changes to information systems) to determine the likelihood and impact of all identified risks using qualitative and quantitative methods. The likelihood and impact associated with inherent and residual risk shall be determined independently, considering all risk categories (e.g., audit results, threat and vulnerability analysis, and regulatory compliance).
0	An access control policy shall be established, documented and reviewed based on business and information security requirements.	Roles and responsibilities of contractors, employees, and third-party users shall be documented as they relate to information assets and security.
0	Send all malware detection events to enterprise anti-malware administration tools and event log servers for analysis and alerting.	Send all malware detection events to enterprise anti-malware administration tools and event log servers for analysis and alerting.
0	Access to all audit trails	Upon termination of workforce personnel and/or expiration of external business relationships, all organizationally-owned assets shall be returned within an established period.
0	Ensure that all backups have at least one backup destination that is not continuously addressable through operating system calls.	Organizations shall create and maintain a control framework which captures standards, regulatory, legal, and statutory requirements relevant for their business needs. The control framework shall be reviewed at least annually to ensure changes that could affect the business processes are reflected.
1	The organization provides contingency training to information system users consistent with assigned roles and responsibilities:  a. Within [Assignment: organization-defined time period] of assuming a contingency role or responsibility;  b. When required by information system changes; and  c. [Assignment: organization-defined frequency] thereafter.	A consistent unified framework for business continuity planning and plan development shall be established, documented, and adopted to ensure all business continuity plans are consistent in addressing priorities for testing, maintenance, and information security requirements.  Requirements for business continuity plans include the following:  • Defined purpose and scope, aligned with relevant dependencies  • Accessible to and understood by those who will use them  • Owned by a named person(s) who is responsible for their review, update, and approval  • Defined lines of communication, roles, and responsibilities  • Detailed recovery procedures, manual work-around, and reference information  • Method for plan invocation
1	The allocation and use of privileged access rights shall be restricted and controlled.	Policies and procedures are established for permissible storage and access of identities used for authentication to ensure identities are only accessible based on rules of least privilege and replication limitation only to users explicitly defined as business necessary.
1	Promptly back up audit trail files to a centralized log server or media that is difficult to alter.	Higher levels of assurance are required for protection, retention, and lifecycle management of audit logs, adhering to applicable legal, statutory or regulatory compliance obligations and providing unique user access accountability to detect potentially suspicious network behaviors and/or file integrity anomalies, and to support forensic investigative capabilities in the event of a security breach.
0	Ensure network engineers use a dedicated machine for all administrative tasks or tasks requiring elevated access. This machine shall be segmented from the organization’s primary network and not be allowed Internet access. This machine shall not be used for reading email, composing documents, or surfing the Internet.	A centralized, mobile device management solution shall be deployed to all mobile devices permitted to store, transmit, or process customer data.
0	Deploy a change-detection mechanism (for example, file-integrity monitoring tools) to alert personnel to unauthorized modification (including changes, additions, and deletions) of critical system files, configuration files, or content files; and configure the software to perform critical file comparisons at least weekly.	User access to diagnostic and configuration ports shall be restricted to authorized individuals and applications.
1	Information systems shall be regularly reviewed for compliance with the organization's information security policies and standards.	All cloud-based services used by the company's mobile devices or BYOD shall be pre-approved for usage and the storage of company business data.
0	Equipment shall be protected from power failures and other disruptions caused by failures in supporting utilities.	Prior to granting customers access to data, assets, and information systems, identified security, contractual, and regulatory requirements for customer access shall be addressed.
1	Ensure that security policies and operational procedures for identification and authentication are documented, in use, and known to all affected parties.	Managers are responsible for maintaining awareness of, and complying with, security policies, procedures, and standards that are relevant to their area of responsibility.
1	The organization requires that the registration process to receive [Assignment: organization- defined types of and/or specific authenticators] be conducted [Selection: in person; by a trusted third party] before [Assignment: organization-defined registration authority] with authorization by [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]. 	User access policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for ensuring appropriate identity, entitlement, and access management for all internal corporate and customer (tenant) users with access to data and organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) application interfaces and infrastructure network and systems components. These policies, procedures, processes, and measures must incorporate the following:  • Procedures, supporting roles, and responsibilities for provisioning and de-provisioning user account entitlements following the rule of least privilege based on job function (e.g., internal employee and contingent staff personnel changes, customer-controlled access, suppliers' business relationships, or other third-party business relationships)  • Business case considerations for higher levels of assurance and multi-factor authentication secrets (e.g., management interfaces, key generation, remote access, segregation of duties, emergency access, large-scale provisioning or geographically-distributed deployments, and personnel redundancy for critical systems)  • Access segmentation to sessions and data in multi-tenant architectures by any third party (e.g., provider and/or other customer (tenant))  • Identity trust verification and service-to-service application (API) and information processing interoperability (e.g., SSO and federation)  • Account credential lifecycle management from instantiation through revocation  • Account credential and/or identity store minimization or re-use when feasible  • Authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules for access to data and sessions (e.g., encryption and strong/multi-factor, expireable, non-shared authentication secrets)  • Permissions and supporting capabilities for customer (tenant) controls over authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules for access to data and sessions  • Adherence to applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance requirements
1	Requirement to review firewall and router rule sets at least every six months	Baseline security requirements shall be established for developed or acquired, organizationally-owned or managed, physical or virtual, applications and infrastructure system and network components that comply with applicable legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations. Deviations from standard baseline configurations must be authorized following change management policies and procedures prior to deployment, provisioning, or use. Compliance with security baseline requirements must be reassessed at least annually unless an alternate frequency has been established and authorized based on business needs.
0	The organization [Selection: restricts; prohibits] the use of organization-controlled portable storage devices by authorized individuals on external information systems.	The organization [Selection: restricts; prohibits] the use of organization-controlled portable storage devices by authorized individuals on external information systems.
1	Managers shall regularly review the compliance of information processing and procedures within their area of responsibility with the appropriate security policies, standards and any other security requirements.	BYOD and/or company-owned devices are configured to require an automatic lockout screen, and the requirement shall be enforced through technical controls.
1	o In the event of the primary site being made unavailable, what is the minimum separation for the location of the secondary site?	Physical protection against damage from natural causes and disasters, as well as deliberate attacks, including fire, flood, atmospheric electrical discharge, solar induced geomagnetic storm, wind, earthquake, tsunami, explosion, nuclear accident, volcanic activity, biological hazard, civil unrest, mudslide, tectonic activity, and other forms of natural or man-made disaster shall be anticipated, designed, and have countermeasures applied.
1	The organization restricts privileged accounts on the information system to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles].	Access to all hypervisor management functions or administrative consoles for systems hosting virtualized systems shall be restricted to personnel based upon the principle of least privilege and supported through technical controls (e.g., two-factor authentication, audit trails, IP address filtering, firewalls, and TLS encapsulated communications to the administrative consoles).
1	Leverage the Advanced Encryption Standard (AES) to encrypt wireless data in transit.	Network environments and virtual instances shall be designed and configured to restrict and monitor traffic between trusted and untrusted connections. These configurations shall be reviewed at least annually, and supported by a documented justification for use for all allowed services, protocols, ports, and by compensating controls.
0	Develop usage policies for critical technologies and define proper use of these technologies.	Executive and line management shall take formal action to support information security through clearly-documented direction and commitment, and shall ensure the action has been assigned.
0	Managers shall regularly review the compliance of information processing and procedures within their area of responsibility with the appropriate security policies, standards and any other security requirements.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to prevent the execution of malware on organizationally-owned or managed user end-point devices (i.e., issued workstations, laptops, and mobile devices) and IT infrastructure network and systems components.
0	• Are secure configurations deployed to only allow the execution of authorised mobile code and authorised functionality (e.g., only execute specific commands)?	Risks shall be mitigated to an acceptable level. Acceptance levels based on risk criteria shall be established and documented in accordance with reasonable resolution time frames and stakeholder approval.
1	Visitors are identified and given a badge or other identification that expires and that visibly distinguishes the visitors from onsite personnel.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes implemented, for maintaining a safe and secure working environment in offices, rooms, facilities, and secure areas storing sensitive information.
1	Utilize an active discovery tool to identify devices connected to the organization’s network and update the hardware asset inventory.	Assets must be classified in terms of business criticality, service-level expectations, and operational continuity requirements. A complete inventory of business-critical assets located at all sites and/or geographical locations and their usage over time shall be maintained and updated regularly, and assigned ownership by defined roles and responsibilities.
1	Limit access to system components and cardholder data to only those individuals whose job requires such access.	User access to diagnostic and configuration ports shall be restricted to authorized individuals and applications.
0	The organization:  a. Develops, documents, and disseminates to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]:    1. A contingency planning policy that addresses purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment, coordination among organizational entities, and compliance; and    2. Procedures to facilitate the implementation of the contingency planning policy and associated contingency planning controls; and  b. Reviews and updates the current:    1. Contingency planning policy [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and    2. Contingency planning procedures [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	Providers shall inspect, account for, and work with their cloud supply-chain partners to correct data quality errors and associated risks. Providers shall design and implement controls to mitigate and contain data security risks through proper separation of duties, role-based access, and least-privilege access for all personnel within their supply chain.
0	Audit requirements and activities involving verification of operational systems shall be carefully planned and agreed to minimise disruptions to business processes.	Physical protection against damage from natural causes and disasters, as well as deliberate attacks, including fire, flood, atmospheric electrical discharge, solar induced geomagnetic storm, wind, earthquake, tsunami, explosion, nuclear accident, volcanic activity, biological hazard, civil unrest, mudslide, tectonic activity, and other forms of natural or man-made disaster shall be anticipated, designed, and have countermeasures applied.
1	Managers shall regularly review the compliance of information processing and procedures within their area of responsibility with the appropriate security policies, standards and any other security requirements.	Secured and encrypted communication channels shall be used when migrating physical servers, applications, or data to virtualized servers and, where possible, shall use a network segregated from production-level networks for such migrations.
1	All “high risk” vulnerabilities identified in the vulnerability identification process (as defined in PCI DSS Requirement 6.1).	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for the use of encryption protocols for protection of sensitive data in storage (e.g., file servers, databases, and end-user workstations), data in use (memory), and data in transmission (e.g., system interfaces, over public networks, and electronic messaging) as per applicable legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations.
0	Improper access control (such as insecure direct object references, failure to restrict URL access, directory traversal, and failure to restrict user access to functions).	Provisioning user access (e.g., employees, contractors, customers (tenants), business partners, and/or supplier relationships) to data and organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) applications, infrastructure systems, and network components shall be authorized by the organization's management prior to access being granted and appropriately restricted as per established policies and procedures. Upon request, provider shall inform customer (tenant) of this user access, especially if customer (tenant) data is used as part the service and/or customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of control.
1	Uninstall or disable any unauthorized browser or email client plugins or add-on applications.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to restrict the installation of unauthorized software on organizationally-owned or managed user end-point devices (e.g., issued workstations, laptops, and mobile devices) and IT infrastructure network and systems components.
1	The organization:  a. Develops, documents, and disseminates to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]:    1. A contingency planning policy that addresses purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment, coordination among organizational entities, and compliance; and    2. Procedures to facilitate the implementation of the contingency planning policy and associated contingency planning controls; and  b. Reviews and updates the current:    1. Contingency planning policy [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and    2. Contingency planning procedures [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	The organization's business leadership (or other accountable business role or function) shall review the information security policy at planned intervals or as a result of changes to the organization to ensure its continuing alignment with the security strategy, effectiveness, accuracy, relevance, and applicability to legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance obligations.
1	The organization approves, controls, and monitors information system maintenance tools.	User access to diagnostic and configuration ports shall be restricted to authorized individuals and applications.
0	Information systems shall be regularly reviewed for compliance with the organization's information security policies and standards.	Policies and procedures are established for permissible storage and access of identities used for authentication to ensure identities are only accessible based on rules of least privilege and replication limitation only to users explicitly defined as business necessary.
1	A policy on the use of cryptographic controls for protection of information shall be developed and implemented, and supported by formal procedures.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for the use of encryption protocols for protection of sensitive data in storage (e.g., file servers, databases, and end-user workstations), data in use (memory), and data in transmission (e.g., system interfaces, over public networks, and electronic messaging) as per applicable legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations.
1	Detection, prevention and recovery controls to protect against malware shall be implemented, combined with appropriate user awareness.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to prevent the execution of malware on organizationally-owned or managed user end-point devices (i.e., issued workstations, laptops, and mobile devices) and IT infrastructure network and systems components.
1	The organization:  a. Employs [Assignment: organization-defined security controls] at alternate work sites;  b. Assesses as feasible, the effectiveness of security controls at alternate work sites; and  c. Provides a means for employees to communicate with information security personnel in case of security incidents or problems.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes implemented, for maintaining a safe and secure working environment in offices, rooms, facilities, and secure areas storing sensitive information.
0	To ensure that employees and contractors are aware of and fulfil their information security responsibilities.	To ensure that employees and contractors are aware of and fulfil their information security responsibilities.
0	The organization approves, controls, and monitors information system maintenance tools.	Information system documentation (e.g., administrator and user guides, and architecture diagrams) shall be made available to authorized personnel to ensure the following:  • Configuring, installing, and operating the information system  • Effectively using the system’s security features
1	o How are the detection capabilities structured? o How can the cloud customer report anomalies and security events to the provider? o What facilities does the provider allow for customer-selected third party RTSM services to intervene in their systems (where appropriate) or to co-ordinate incident response capabilities with the cloud provider?         o Is there a real time security monitoring (RTSM) service in place? Is the service outsourced? What kind of parameters and services are monitored? o Do you provide (upon request) a periodical report on security incidents (eg,. according to the ITIL definition)? o For how long are the security logs retained? Are those logs securely stored? Who has access to the logs? o Is it possible for the customer to build a HIPS/HIDS in the virtual machine image? Is it possible to integrate the information collected by the intrusion detection and prevention systems of the customer into the RTSM service of the cloud provider or that of a third party? 	Network environments and virtual instances shall be designed and configured to restrict and monitor traffic between trusted and untrusted connections. These configurations shall be reviewed at least annually, and supported by a documented justification for use for all allowed services, protocols, ports, and by compensating controls.
1	Limit access to system components and cardholder data to only those individuals whose job requires such access.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to restrict the installation of unauthorized software on organizationally-owned or managed user end-point devices (e.g., issued workstations, laptops, and mobile devices) and IT infrastructure network and systems components.
0	All relevant legislative statutory, regulatory, contractual requirements and the organization's approach to meet these requirements shall be explicitly identified, documented and kept up to date for each information system and the organization.	Protection measures shall be put into place to react to natural and man-made threats based upon a geographically-specific business impact assessment.
1	The organization: (a) Establishes and administers privileged user accounts in accordance with a role-based access scheme that organizes allowed information system access and privileges into roles; (b) Monitors privileged role assignments; and (c) Takes [Assignment: organization-defined actions] when privileged role assignments are no longer appropriate.	User access policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for restricting user access as per defined segregation of duties to address business risks associated with a user-role conflict of interest.
1	The organization:  a. Conducts an assessment of risk, including the likelihood and magnitude of harm, from the unauthorized access, use, disclosure, disruption, modification, or destruction of the information system and the information it processes, stores, or transmits;  b. Documents risk assessment results in [Selection: security plan; risk assessment report; [Assignment: organization-defined document]];  c. Reviews risk assessment results [Assignment: organization-defined frequency];  d. Disseminates risk assessment results to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]; and  e. Updates the risk assessment [Assignment: organization-defined frequency] or whenever there are significant changes to the information system or environment of operation (including the identification of new threats and vulnerabilities), or other conditions that may impact the security state of the system.	Aligned with the enterprise-wide framework, formal risk assessments shall be performed at least annually or at planned intervals, (and in conjunction with any changes to information systems) to determine the likelihood and impact of all identified risks using qualitative and quantitative methods. The likelihood and impact associated with inherent and residual risk shall be determined independently, considering all risk categories (e.g., audit results, threat and vulnerability analysis, and regulatory compliance).
0	All relevant information security requirements shall be established and agreed with each supplier that may access, process, store, communicate, or provide IT infrastructure components for, the organization's information.	Organizations shall create and maintain a control framework which captures standards, regulatory, legal, and statutory requirements relevant for their business needs. The control framework shall be reviewed at least annually to ensure changes that could affect the business processes are reflected.
1	Users shall  be required to follow the organization's practices in the  use of secret authentication information.	All personnel shall be made aware of their roles and responsibilities for:  • Maintaining awareness and compliance with established policies and procedures and applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance obligations.  • Maintaining a safe and secure working environment
1	All employees, contractors, and third-party users shall return all of the organization's assets in their possession upon termination of their employment, contract, or agreement.	Upon termination of workforce personnel and/or expiration of external business relationships, all organizationally-owned assets shall be returned within an established period.
1	The allocation and use of privileged access rights shall be restricted and controlled.	Policies and procedures shall be established to store and manage identity information about every person who accesses IT infrastructure and to determine their level of access. Policies shall also be developed to control access to network resources based on user identity.
1	The organization establishes terms and conditions, consistent with any trust relationships established with other organizations owning, operating, and/or maintaining external information systems, allowing authorized individuals to:  a. Access the information system from external information systems; and  b. Process, store, or transmit organization-controlled information using external information systems.	Mobile devices connecting to corporate networks, or storing and accessing company information, shall allow for remote software version/patch validation. All mobile devices shall have the latest available security-related patches installed upon general release by the device manufacturer or carrier and authorized IT personnel shall be able to perform these updates remotely.
1	The organization:  a. Authorizes connections from the information system to other information systems through the use of Interconnection Security Agreements;  b. Documents, for each interconnection, the interface characteristics, security requirements, and the nature of the information communicated; and  c. Reviews and updates Interconnection Security Agreements [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	The identification, assessment, and prioritization of risks posed by business processes requiring third-party access to the organization's information systems and data shall be followed by coordinated application of resources to minimize, monitor, and measure likelihood and impact of unauthorized or inappropriate access. Compensating controls derived from the risk analysis shall be implemented prior to provisioning access.
0	Ensure logging and audit trails are enabled and unique to each entity’s cardholder data environment and consistent with PCI DSS Requirement 10.	Ensure logging and audit trails are enabled and unique to each entity’s cardholder data environment and consistent with PCI DSS Requirement 10.
1	Segment the network based on the label or classification level of the information stored on the servers, locate all sensitive information on separated Virtual Local Area Networks (VLANs).	Network environments and virtual instances shall be designed and configured to restrict and monitor traffic between trusted and untrusted connections. These configurations shall be reviewed at least annually, and supported by a documented justification for use for all allowed services, protocols, ports, and by compensating controls.
1	All individual user accesses to cardholder data	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to restrict the installation of unauthorized software on organizationally-owned or managed user end-point devices (e.g., issued workstations, laptops, and mobile devices) and IT infrastructure network and systems components.
1	Utilize application whitelisting technology on all assets to ensure that only authorized software executes and all unauthorized software is blocked from executing on assets.	Each operating system shall be hardened to provide only necessary ports, protocols, and services to meet business needs and have in place supporting technical controls such as: antivirus, file integrity monitoring, and logging as part of their baseline operating build standard or template.
0	• Define the controls used to mitigate DDoS (distributed denial–of-service) attacks. o Defence in depth (deep packet analysis, traffic throttling, packet black-holing, etc) o Do you have defences against ‘internal’ (originating from the cloud providers networks) attacks as well as external (originating from the Internet or customer networks) attacks? 	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting processes and technical measures implemented, for timely detection of vulnerabilities within organizationally-owned or managed applications, infrastructure network and system components (e.g., network vulnerability assessment, penetration testing) to ensure the efficiency of implemented security controls. A risk-based model for prioritizing remediation of identified vulnerabilities shall be used. Changes shall be managed through a change management process for all vendor-supplied patches, configuration changes, or changes to the organization's internally developed software. Upon request, the provider informs customer (tenant) of policies and procedures and identified weaknesses especially if customer (tenant) data is used as part the service and/or customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of control.
0	Management shall actively support security within the organization through clear direction, demonstrated commitment, explicit assignment, and acknowledgment of information security responsibilities.	The provider shall use secure (e.g., non-clear text and authenticated) standardized network protocols for the import and export of data and to manage the service, and shall make available a document to consumers (tenants) detailing the relevant interoperability and portability standards that are involved.
0	Limit access to system components and cardholder data to only those individuals whose job requires such access.	A documented list of approved application stores has been defined as acceptable for mobile devices accessing or storing provider managed data.
0	• Do you only allow authorised maintenance or repair staff onto the site? o How do you check their identity? 	Information system documentation (e.g., administrator and user guides, and architecture diagrams) shall be made available to authorized personnel to ensure the following:  • Configuring, installing, and operating the information system  • Effectively using the system’s security features
0	Implement a methodology for penetration testing that includes the following:  Is based on industry-accepted penetration testing approaches (for example, NIST SP800-115)  Includes coverage for the entire CDE perimeter and critical systems  Includes testing from both inside and outside the network  Includes testing to validate any segmentation and scope-reduction controls  Defines application-layer penetration tests to include, at a minimum, the vulnerabilities listed in Requirement 6.5  Defines network-layer penetration tests to include components that support network functions as well as operating systems  Includes review and consideration of threats and vulnerabilities experienced in the last 12 months  Specifies retention of penetration testing results and remediation activities results.PCI DSS Requirements	Timely de-provisioning (revocation or modification) of user access to data and organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) applications, infrastructure systems, and network components, shall be implemented as per established policies and procedures and based on user's change in status (e.g., termination of employment or other business relationship, job change, or transfer). Upon request, provider shall inform customer (tenant) of these changes, especially if customer (tenant) data is used as part the service and/or customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of control.
0	Secure audit trails so they cannot be altered.	Policies and procedures are established for permissible storage and access of identities used for authentication to ensure identities are only accessible based on rules of least privilege and replication limitation only to users explicitly defined as business necessary.
0	Records shall be protected from loss, destruction, falsification, unauthorized access and unauthorized release, in accordance with legislator^ regulatory, contractual and business requirements.	Secured and encrypted communication channels shall be used when migrating physical servers, applications, or data to virtualized servers and, where possible, shall use a network segregated from production-level networks for such migrations.
0	Manage all network devices using multi-factor authentication and encrypted sessions.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to restrict the installation of unauthorized software on organizationally-owned or managed user end-point devices (e.g., issued workstations, laptops, and mobile devices) and IT infrastructure network and systems components.
1	• What assurance can the PaaS provider give that access to your data is restricted to your enterprise users and to the applications you own?	User access policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for ensuring appropriate identity, entitlement, and access management for all internal corporate and customer (tenant) users with access to data and organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) application interfaces and infrastructure network and systems components. These policies, procedures, processes, and measures must incorporate the following:  • Procedures, supporting roles, and responsibilities for provisioning and de-provisioning user account entitlements following the rule of least privilege based on job function (e.g., internal employee and contingent staff personnel changes, customer-controlled access, suppliers' business relationships, or other third-party business relationships)  • Business case considerations for higher levels of assurance and multi-factor authentication secrets (e.g., management interfaces, key generation, remote access, segregation of duties, emergency access, large-scale provisioning or geographically-distributed deployments, and personnel redundancy for critical systems)  • Access segmentation to sessions and data in multi-tenant architectures by any third party (e.g., provider and/or other customer (tenant))  • Identity trust verification and service-to-service application (API) and information processing interoperability (e.g., SSO and federation)  • Account credential lifecycle management from instantiation through revocation  • Account credential and/or identity store minimization or re-use when feasible  • Authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules for access to data and sessions (e.g., encryption and strong/multi-factor, expireable, non-shared authentication secrets)  • Permissions and supporting capabilities for customer (tenant) controls over authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules for access to data and sessions  • Adherence to applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance requirements
1	There shall be a formal documented and implemented user registration and de-registration procedure for granting and revoking access.	Provisioning user access (e.g., employees, contractors, customers (tenants), business partners, and/or supplier relationships) to data and organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) applications, infrastructure systems, and network components shall be authorized by the organization's management prior to access being granted and appropriately restricted as per established policies and procedures. Upon request, provider shall inform customer (tenant) of this user access, especially if customer (tenant) data is used as part the service and/or customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of control.
0	The organization establishes terms and conditions, consistent with any trust relationships established with other organizations owning, operating, and/or maintaining external information systems, allowing authorized individuals to:  a. Access the information system from external information systems; and  b. Process, store, or transmit organization-controlled information using external information systems.	Providers shall review the risk management and governance processes of their partners so that practices are consistent and aligned to account for risks inherited from other members of that partner's cloud supply chain.
0	The organization develops a continuous monitoring strategy and implements a continuous monitoring program that includes:  a. Establishment of [Assignment: organization-defined metrics] to be monitored;  b. Establishment of [Assignment: organization-defined frequencies] for monitoring and [Assignment: organization-defined frequencies] for assessments supporting such monitoring;  c. Ongoing security control assessments in accordance with the organizational continuous monitoring strategy;  d. Ongoing security status monitoring of organization-defined metrics in accordance with the organizational continuous monitoring strategy;  e. Correlation and analysis of security-related information generated by assessments and monitoring;  f. Response actions to address results of the analysis of security-related information; and  g. Reporting the security status of organization and the information system to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles] [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	Policies, procedures, and mutually-agreed upon provisions and/or terms shall be established to satisfy customer (tenant) requirements for service-to-service application (API) and information processing interoperability, and portability for application development and information exchange, usage, and integrity persistence.
1	Ensure that backups are properly protected via physical security or encryption when they are stored, as well as when they are moved across the network. This includes remote backups and cloud services.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for defining and adhering to the retention period of any critical asset as per established policies and procedures, as well as applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance obligations. Backup and recovery measures shall be incorporated as part of business continuity planning and tested accordingly for effectiveness.
0	Management shall require employees, and where applicable, contractors and third-party users, to apply security in accordance with established policies and procedures of the organization.	Authorization must be obtained prior to relocation or transfer of hardware, software, or data to an offsite premises.
1	The organization:  a. Develops, documents, and disseminates to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]:    1. An incident response policy that addresses purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment, coordination among organizational entities, and compliance; and    2. Procedures to facilitate the implementation of the incident response policy and associated incident response controls; and  b. Reviews and updates the current:    1. Incident response policy [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and    2. Incident response procedures [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for appropriate IT governance and service management to ensure appropriate planning, delivery, and support of the organization's IT capabilities supporting business functions, workforce, and/or customers based on industry acceptable standards (i.e., ITIL v4 and COBIT 5). Additionally, policies and procedures shall include defined roles and responsibilities supported by regular workforce training.
1	Perform quarterly internal vulnerability scans. Address vulnerabilities and perform rescans to verify all “high risk” vulnerabilities are resolved in accordance with the entity’s vulnerability ranking (per Requirement 6.1). Scans must be performed by qualified personnel.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting processes and technical measures implemented, for timely detection of vulnerabilities within organizationally-owned or managed applications, infrastructure network and system components (e.g., network vulnerability assessment, penetration testing) to ensure the efficiency of implemented security controls. A risk-based model for prioritizing remediation of identified vulnerabilities shall be used. Changes shall be managed through a change management process for all vendor-supplied patches, configuration changes, or changes to the organization's internally developed software. Upon request, the provider informs customer (tenant) of policies and procedures and identified weaknesses especially if customer (tenant) data is used as part the service and/or customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of control.
1	Modifications to software packages shall be discouraged, limited to necessary changes and all changes shall be strictly controlled.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to restrict the installation of unauthorized software on organizationally-owned or managed user end-point devices (e.g., issued workstations, laptops, and mobile devices) and IT infrastructure network and systems components.
0	The organization:  a. Develops, documents, and disseminates to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]:    1. A personnel security policy that addresses purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment, coordination among organizational entities, and compliance; and    2. Procedures to facilitate the implementation of the personnel security policy and associated personnel security controls; and  b. Reviews and updates the current:    1. Personnel security policy [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and    2. Personnel security procedures [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	Policies and procedures shall be established for the management of cryptographic keys in the service's cryptosystem (e.g., lifecycle management from key generation to revocation and replacement, public key infrastructure, cryptographic protocol design and algorithms used, access controls in place for secure key generation, and exchange and storage including segregation of keys used for encrypted data or sessions). Upon request, provider shall inform the customer (tenant) of changes within the cryptosystem, especially if the customer (tenant) data is used as part of the service, and/or the customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of the control.
0	The information system automatically audits account creation, modification, enabling, disabling, and removal actions, and notifies [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles].	Business-critical or customer (tenant) impacting (physical and virtual) application and system-system interface (API) designs and configurations, and infrastructure network and systems components, shall be designed, developed, and deployed in accordance with mutually agreed-upon service and capacity-level expectations, as well as IT governance and service management policies and procedures.
1	Enable only necessary services, protocols, daemons, etc., as required for the function of the system.	Baseline security requirements shall be established for developed or acquired, organizationally-owned or managed, physical or virtual, applications and infrastructure system and network components that comply with applicable legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations. Deviations from standard baseline configurations must be authorized following change management policies and procedures prior to deployment, provisioning, or use. Compliance with security baseline requirements must be reassessed at least annually unless an alternate frequency has been established and authorized based on business needs.
1	Develop usage policies for critical technologies and define proper use of these technologies.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for defining allowances and conditions for permitting usage of organizationally-owned or managed user end-point devices (e.g., issued workstations, laptops, and mobile devices) and IT infrastructure network and systems components. Additionally, defining allowances and conditions to permit usage of personal mobile devices and associated applications with access to corporate resources (i.e., BYOD) shall be considered and incorporated as appropriate.
0	All relevant legislative statutory, regulatory, contractual requirements and the organization's approach to meet these requirements shall be explicitly identified, documented and kept up to date for each information system and the organization.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to protect wireless network environments, including the following:  • Perimeter firewalls implemented and configured to restrict unauthorized traffic  • Security settings enabled with strong encryption for authentication and transmission, replacing vendor default settings (e.g., encryption keys, passwords, and SNMP community strings)  • User access to wireless network devices restricted to authorized personnel  • The capability to detect the presence of unauthorized (rogue) wireless network devices for a timely disconnect from the network
1	Modifications to software packages shall be discouraged, limited to necessary changes and all changes shall be strictly controlled.	Production and non-production environments shall be separated to prevent unauthorized access or changes to information assets. Separation of the environments may include: stateful inspection firewalls, domain/realm authentication sources, and clear segregation of duties for personnel accessing these environments as part of their job duties.
1	The organization:  a. Develops an incident response plan that:    1. Provides the organization with a roadmap for implementing its incident response capability;    2. Describes the structure and organization of the incident response capability;    3. Provides a high-level approach for how the incident response capability fits into the overall organization;    4. Meets the unique requirements of the organization, which relate to mission, size, structure, and functions;    5. Defines reportable incidents;    6. Provides metrics for measuring the incident response capability within the organization;    7. Defines the resources and management support needed to effectively maintain and mature an incident response capability; and    8. Is reviewed and approved by [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles];  b. Distributes copies of the incident response plan to [Assignment: organization-defined incident response personnel (identified by name and/or by role) and organizational elements];  c. Reviews the incident response plan [Assignment: organization-defined frequency];  d. Updates the incident response plan to address system/organizational changes or problems encountered during plan implementation, execution, or testing;   e. Communicates incident response plan changes to [Assignment: organization-defined incident response personnel (identified by name and/or by role) and organizational elements]; and f. Protects the incident response plan from unauthorized disclosure and modification.	Proper forensic procedures, including chain of custody, are required for the presentation of evidence to support potential legal action subject to the relevant jurisdiction after an information security incident. Upon notification, customers and/or other external business partners impacted by a security breach shall be given the opportunity to participate as is legally permissible in the forensic investigation.
0	The organization provides the capability to expeditiously disconnect or disable remote access to the information system within [Assignment: organization-defined time period].	Providers shall assure reasonable information security across their information supply chain by performing an annual review. The review shall include all partners/third party-providers upon which their information supply chain depends on.
1	Secure audit trails so they cannot be altered.	External business partners shall adhere to the same policies and procedures for change management, release, and testing as internal developers within the organization (e.g., ITIL service management processes).
0	The organization:  a. Develops, documents, and disseminates to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]:    1. A system and information integrity policy that addresses purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment, coordination among organizational entities, and compliance; and    2. Procedures to facilitate the implementation of the system and information integrity policy and associated system and information integrity controls; and  b. Reviews and updates the current:    1. System and information integrity policy [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and    2.  System and information integrity procedures [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	All personnel shall be made aware of their roles and responsibilities for:  • Maintaining awareness and compliance with established policies and procedures and applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance obligations.  • Maintaining a safe and secure working environment
0	： To protect against loss of data.	Workforce personnel and external business relationships shall be informed of their responsibilities and, if required, shall consent and/or contractually agree to report all information security events in a timely manner. Information security events shall be reported through predefined communications channels in a timely manner adhering to applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance obligations.
0	Media shall be disposed of securely and safely when no longer required, using formal procedures that are documented.	Organizations shall create and maintain a control framework which captures standards, regulatory, legal, and statutory requirements relevant for their business needs. The control framework shall be reviewed at least annually to ensure changes that could affect the business processes are reflected.
0	The organization restricts the location of [Selection (one or more): information processing; information/data; information system services] to [Assignment: organization-defined locations] based on [Assignment: organization-defined requirements or conditions].	A centralized, mobile device management solution shall be deployed to all mobile devices permitted to store, transmit, or process customer data.
0	o How are severity levels defined?	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for defining and adhering to the retention period of any critical asset as per established policies and procedures, as well as applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance obligations. Backup and recovery measures shall be incorporated as part of business continuity planning and tested accordingly for effectiveness.
1	Deploy system configuration management tools that will automatically enforce and redeploy configuration settings to systems at regularly scheduled intervals.	Changes to mobile device operating systems, patch levels, and/or applications shall be managed through the company's change management processes.
0	The organization:  a. Physically controls and securely stores [Assignment: organization-defined types of digital and/or non-digital media] within [Assignment: organization-defined controlled areas]; and  b. Protects information system media until the media are destroyed or sanitized using approved equipment, techniques, and procedures.	Proper forensic procedures, including chain of custody, are required for the presentation of evidence to support potential legal action subject to the relevant jurisdiction after an information security incident. Upon notification, customers and/or other external business partners impacted by a security breach shall be given the opportunity to participate as is legally permissible in the forensic investigation.
0	All relevant legislative statutory, regulatory, contractual requirements and the organization's approach to meet these requirements shall be explicitly identified, documented and kept up to date for each information system and the organization.	Information security policies and procedures shall be established and made readily available for review by all impacted personnel and external business relationships. Information security policies must be authorized by the organization's business leadership (or other accountable business role or function) and supported by a strategic business plan and an information security management program inclusive of defined information security roles and responsibilities for business leadership.
0	Procedures for working in secure areas shall be designed and applied.	Protection measures shall be put into place to react to natural and man-made threats based upon a geographically-specific business impact assessment.
1	Ensure that all system data is automatically backed up on a regular basis.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for defining and adhering to the retention period of any critical asset as per established policies and procedures, as well as applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance obligations. Backup and recovery measures shall be incorporated as part of business continuity planning and tested accordingly for effectiveness.
0	The organization employs an automatic fire suppression capability for the information system when the facility is not staffed on a continuous basis. 	Mobile devices connecting to corporate networks, or storing and accessing company information, shall allow for remote software version/patch validation. All mobile devices shall have the latest available security-related patches installed upon general release by the device manufacturer or carrier and authorized IT personnel shall be able to perform these updates remotely.
0	Remove/disable inactive user accounts within 90 days.	A formal disciplinary or sanction policy shall be established for employees who have violated security policies and procedures. Employees shall be made aware of what action might be taken in the event of a violation, and disciplinary measures must be stated in the policies and procedures.
0	An access control policy shall be established, documented and reviewed based on business and information security requirements.	The provider shall use open and published APIs to ensure support for interoperability between components and to facilitate migrating applications.
0	Deploy automated software update tools in order to ensure that the operating systems are running the most recent security updates provided by the software vendor.	Policies and procedures shall be implemented to ensure the consistent review of service agreements (e.g., SLAs) between providers and customers (tenants) across the relevant supply chain (upstream/downstream). Reviews shall be performed at least annually and identify any non-conformance to established agreements. The reviews should result in actions to address service-level conflicts or inconsistencies resulting from disparate supplier relationships.
1	• Do you protect your buildings from lightening strikes? o Including electrical and communication lines? 	Physical protection against damage from natural causes and disasters, as well as deliberate attacks, including fire, flood, atmospheric electrical discharge, solar induced geomagnetic storm, wind, earthquake, tsunami, explosion, nuclear accident, volcanic activity, biological hazard, civil unrest, mudslide, tectonic activity, and other forms of natural or man-made disaster shall be anticipated, designed, and have countermeasures applied.
0	Perform automated port scans on a regular basis against all systems and alert if unauthorized ports are detected on a system.	Business-critical or customer (tenant) impacting (physical and virtual) application and system-system interface (API) designs and configurations, and infrastructure network and systems components, shall be designed, developed, and deployed in accordance with mutually agreed-upon service and capacity-level expectations, as well as IT governance and service management policies and procedures.
1	Use either video cameras or access control mechanisms (or both) to monitor individual physical access to sensitive areas. Review collected data and correlate with other entries. Store for at least three months, unless otherwise restricted by law.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes implemented, for maintaining a safe and secure working environment in offices, rooms, facilities, and secure areas storing sensitive information.
0	Ensure that only network ports, protocols, and services listening on a system with validated business needs are running on each system.	Policies and procedures shall be established for managing the risks associated with applying changes to:  • Business-critical or customer (tenant)-impacting (physical and virtual) applications and system-system interface (API) designs and configurations.  • Infrastructure network and systems components. Technical measures shall be implemented to provide assurance that all changes directly correspond to a registered change request, business-critical or customer (tenant), and/or authorization by, the customer (tenant) as per agreement (SLA) prior to deployment.
0	The organization ensures that individuals accessing an information system processing, storing, or transmitting information requiring special protection:  (a)   Have valid access authorizations that are demonstrated by assigned official government duties; and  (b)   Satisfy [Assignment: organization-defined additional personnel screening criteria].	The company shall have a documented application validation process to test for mobile device, operating system, and application compatibility issues.
0	Type of event	Secured and encrypted communication channels shall be used when migrating physical servers, applications, or data to virtualized servers and, where possible, shall use a network segregated from production-level networks for such migrations.
1	• Are there different policies depending on where the data is stored or applications are run? o For example, hiring policies in one region may be different from those in another. o Practices need to be consistent across regions. o It may be that sensitive data is stored in one particular region with appropriate personnel. 	User access policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for ensuring appropriate identity, entitlement, and access management for all internal corporate and customer (tenant) users with access to data and organizationally-owned or managed (physical and virtual) application interfaces and infrastructure network and systems components. These policies, procedures, processes, and measures must incorporate the following:  • Procedures, supporting roles, and responsibilities for provisioning and de-provisioning user account entitlements following the rule of least privilege based on job function (e.g., internal employee and contingent staff personnel changes, customer-controlled access, suppliers' business relationships, or other third-party business relationships)  • Business case considerations for higher levels of assurance and multi-factor authentication secrets (e.g., management interfaces, key generation, remote access, segregation of duties, emergency access, large-scale provisioning or geographically-distributed deployments, and personnel redundancy for critical systems)  • Access segmentation to sessions and data in multi-tenant architectures by any third party (e.g., provider and/or other customer (tenant))  • Identity trust verification and service-to-service application (API) and information processing interoperability (e.g., SSO and federation)  • Account credential lifecycle management from instantiation through revocation  • Account credential and/or identity store minimization or re-use when feasible  • Authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules for access to data and sessions (e.g., encryption and strong/multi-factor, expireable, non-shared authentication secrets)  • Permissions and supporting capabilities for customer (tenant) controls over authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) rules for access to data and sessions  • Adherence to applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance requirements
0	Ensure that only authorized scripting languages are able to run in all web browsers and email clients.	Policies and procedures shall be implemented to ensure the consistent review of service agreements (e.g., SLAs) between providers and customers (tenants) across the relevant supply chain (upstream/downstream). Reviews shall be performed at least annually and identify any non-conformance to established agreements. The reviews should result in actions to address service-level conflicts or inconsistencies resulting from disparate supplier relationships.
1	There shall be mechanisms in place to enable the types, volumes, and costs of information security incidents to be quantified and monitored.	Mechanisms shall be put in place to monitor and quantify the types, volumes, and costs of information security incidents.
0	Access to information systems audit tools shall be protected to prevent any possible misuse or compromise.	Risk assessments associated with data governance requirements shall be conducted at planned intervals and shall consider the following:  • Awareness of where sensitive data is stored and transmitted across applications, databases, servers, and network infrastructure  • Compliance with defined retention periods and end-of-life disposal requirements  • Data classification and protection from unauthorized use, access, loss, destruction, and falsification
0	Ensure that local logging has been enabled on all systems and networking devices.	The provider shall use secure (e.g., non-clear text and authenticated) standardized network protocols for the import and export of data and to manage the service, and shall make available a document to consumers (tenants) detailing the relevant interoperability and portability standards that are involved.
0	Render PAN unreadable anywhere it is stored (including on portable digital media, backup media, and in logs) by using any of the following approaches:  One-way hashes based on strong cryptography, (hash must be of the entire PAN)  Truncation (hashing cannot be used to replace the truncated segment of PAN)  Index tokens and pads (pads must be securely stored)  Strong cryptography with associated key-management processes and procedures.	All data shall be designated with stewardship, with assigned responsibilities defined, documented, and communicated.
0	Procedures for the handling and storage of information shall be established to protect this information from unauthorized disclosure or misuse.	A security awareness training program shall be established for all contractors, third-party users, and employees of the organization and mandated when appropriate. All individuals with access to organizational data shall receive appropriate awareness training and regular updates in organizational procedures, processes, and policies relating to their professional function relative to the organization.
1	Deploy anti-virus software on all systems commonly affected by malicious software (particularly personal computers and servers).	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to restrict the installation of unauthorized software on organizationally-owned or managed user end-point devices (e.g., issued workstations, laptops, and mobile devices) and IT infrastructure network and systems components.
1	A policy on the use of cryptographic controls for protection of information shall be developed and implemented.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for the use of encryption protocols for protection of sensitive data in storage (e.g., file servers, databases, and end-user workstations), data in use (memory), and data in transmission (e.g., system interfaces, over public networks, and electronic messaging) as per applicable legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations.
1	Enable only necessary services, protocols, daemons, etc., as required for the function of the system.	Network environments and virtual instances shall be designed and configured to restrict and monitor traffic between trusted and untrusted connections. These configurations shall be reviewed at least annually, and supported by a documented justification for use for all allowed services, protocols, ports, and by compensating controls.
1	The organization:  a. Develops an incident response plan that:    1. Provides the organization with a roadmap for implementing its incident response capability;    2. Describes the structure and organization of the incident response capability;    3. Provides a high-level approach for how the incident response capability fits into the overall organization;    4. Meets the unique requirements of the organization, which relate to mission, size, structure, and functions;    5. Defines reportable incidents;    6. Provides metrics for measuring the incident response capability within the organization;    7. Defines the resources and management support needed to effectively maintain and mature an incident response capability; and    8. Is reviewed and approved by [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles];  b. Distributes copies of the incident response plan to [Assignment: organization-defined incident response personnel (identified by name and/or by role) and organizational elements];  c. Reviews the incident response plan [Assignment: organization-defined frequency];  d. Updates the incident response plan to address system/organizational changes or problems encountered during plan implementation, execution, or testing;   e. Communicates incident response plan changes to [Assignment: organization-defined incident response personnel (identified by name and/or by role) and organizational elements]; and f. Protects the incident response plan from unauthorized disclosure and modification.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to triage security-related events and ensure timely and thorough incident management, as per established IT service management policies and procedures.
0	Ensure network engineers use a dedicated machine for all administrative tasks or tasks requiring elevated access. This machine shall be segmented from the organization’s primary network and not be allowed Internet access. This machine shall not be used for reading email, composing documents, or surfing the Internet.	Protection measures shall be put into place to react to natural and man-made threats based upon a geographically-specific business impact assessment.
0	All relevant legislative statutory, regulatory, contractual requirements and the organization's approach to meet these requirements shall be explicitly identified, documented and kept up to date for each information system and the organization.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to ensure the development and/or acquisition of new data, physical or virtual applications, infrastructure network, and systems components, or any corporate, operations and/or data center facilities have been pre-authorized by the organization's business leadership or other accountable business role or function.
0	The information system implements cryptographic mechanisms to protect the confidentiality and integrity of information stored on digital media during transport outside of controlled areas.	Business continuity and security incident response plans shall be subject to testing at planned intervals or upon significant organizational or environmental changes. Incident response plans shall involve impacted customers (tenant) and other business relationships that represent critical intra-supply chain business process dependencies.
0	o Does the provider have an automated means to inventory all assets, which facilitates their appropriate management?	Roles and responsibilities of contractors, employees, and third-party users shall be documented as they relate to information assets and security.
0	The organization:  a. Develops, documents, and disseminates to [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles]:    1. A physical and environmental protection policy that addresses purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment, coordination among organizational entities, and compliance; and    2. Procedures to facilitate the implementation of the physical and environmental protection policy and associated physical and environmental protection controls; and  b. Reviews and updates the current:    1. Physical and environmental protection policy [Assignment: organization-defined frequency]; and    2. Physical and environmental protection procedures [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to triage security-related events and ensure timely and thorough incident management, as per established IT service management policies and procedures.
0	The organization:  a. Establishes and documents usage restrictions, configuration/connection requirements, and implementation guidance for each type of remote access allowed; and  b. Authorizes remote access to the information system prior to allowing such connections.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, to prevent the execution of malware on organizationally-owned or managed user end-point devices (i.e., issued workstations, laptops, and mobile devices) and IT infrastructure network and systems components.
0	The organization:  a. Employs [Assignment: organization-defined security controls] at alternate work sites;  b. Assesses as feasible, the effectiveness of security controls at alternate work sites; and  c. Provides a means for employees to communicate with information security personnel in case of security incidents or problems.	User access shall be authorized and revalidated for entitlement appropriateness, at planned intervals, by the organization's business leadership or other accountable business role or function supported by evidence to demonstrate the organization is adhering to the rule of least privilege based on job function. For identified access violations, remediation must follow established user access policies and procedures.
0	Data protection and privacy shall be ensured as required in relevant legislation, regulations, and contractual clauses.	Physical protection against damage from natural causes and disasters, as well as deliberate attacks, including fire, flood, atmospheric electrical discharge, solar induced geomagnetic storm, wind, earthquake, tsunami, explosion, nuclear accident, volcanic activity, biological hazard, civil unrest, mudslide, tectonic activity, and other forms of natural or man-made disaster shall be anticipated, designed, and have countermeasures applied.
0	Passwords shall be controlled through a formal management process.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting processes and technical measures implemented, for timely detection of vulnerabilities within organizationally-owned or managed applications, infrastructure network and system components (e.g., network vulnerability assessment, penetration testing) to ensure the efficiency of implemented security controls. A risk-based model for prioritizing remediation of identified vulnerabilities shall be used. Changes shall be managed through a change management process for all vendor-supplied patches, configuration changes, or changes to the organization's internally developed software. Upon request, the provider informs customer (tenant) of policies and procedures and identified weaknesses especially if customer (tenant) data is used as part the service and/or customer (tenant) has some shared responsibility over implementation of control.
0	Configure monitoring systems to record network packets passing through the boundary at each of the organization’s network boundaries.	Production data shall not be replicated or used in non-production environments. Any use of customer data in non-production environments requires explicit, documented approval from all customers whose data is affected, and must comply with all legal and regulatory requirements for scrubbing of sensitive data elements.
0	Configure monitoring systems to record network packets passing through the boundary at each of the organization’s network boundaries.	Authorization must be obtained prior to relocation or transfer of hardware, software, or data to an offsite premises.
0	Information security events shall be reported through appropriate management channels as quickly as possible.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for defining and adhering to the retention period of any critical asset as per established policies and procedures, as well as applicable legal, statutory, or regulatory compliance obligations. Backup and recovery measures shall be incorporated as part of business continuity planning and tested accordingly for effectiveness.
1	Data protection and privacy shall be ensured as required in relevant legislation, regulations, and contractual clauses.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for the use of encryption protocols for protection of sensitive data in storage (e.g., file servers, databases, and end-user workstations), data in use (memory), and data in transmission (e.g., system interfaces, over public networks, and electronic messaging) as per applicable legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations.
1	The organization:  a. Schedules, performs, documents, and reviews records of maintenance and repairs on information system components in accordance with manufacturer or vendor specifications and/or organizational requirements;  b. Approves and monitors all maintenance activities, whether performed on site or remotely and whether the equipment is serviced on site or removed to another location;  c. Requires that [Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles] explicitly approve the removal of the information system or system components from organizational facilities for off-site maintenance or repairs;  d. Sanitizes equipment to remove all information from associated media prior to removal from organizational facilities for off-site maintenance or repairs;  e. Checks all potentially impacted security controls to verify that the controls are still functioning properly following maintenance or repair actions; and  f. Includes [Assignment: organization-defined maintenance-related information] in organizational maintenance records.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for equipment maintenance ensuring continuity and availability of operations and support personnel.
1	Formal exchange policies, procedures, and controls shall be in place to protect the exchange of information through the use of all types of communication mediums.	Policies and procedures shall be established, and supporting business processes and technical measures implemented, for the use of encryption protocols for protection of sensitive data in storage (e.g., file servers, databases, and end-user workstations), data in use (memory), and data in transmission (e.g., system interfaces, over public networks, and electronic messaging) as per applicable legal, statutory, and regulatory compliance obligations.
